The William Stainback Family

Chapter Two

The William Stainback Family

207

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

208

The William Stainback Family

“The farther back you look, the farther ahead you can see.”
Winston Churchill

1660

The William Stainback, Sr. Family
While conducting the research on my paternal grandfather's Jackson side of the family, my
interest began to peak concerning my paternal grandmother's Stainback family. The connection
between the Jackson and Stainback families goes back far beyond my grandparents however,
which we will explore shortly and then continue in detail in the William Fawn Chapter which
follows. My grandmother's family can trace their Stainback lineage to England and their
consequential immigration to North America long before the founding of the United States as
a country.

The earliest ancestor to whom our family can trace its lineage is William Stainback, Sr. He
was born sometime around 1660 in St. Helen's Auckland Parish in Durham County, England.
He probably came to North America in 1690, but some genealogists think that he may have
arrived a little earlier. Our best guess is that he landed in the Virginia Colony sometime before
1690, in Charles City County.1 We certainly don't know what prompted William Stainback
1 The first information that I was able to obtain on our earliest Stainback family members initially came from N.
Wayne Stainback of Henderson, North Carolina. I appreciate him getting me started with a letter in the 1980's. He
later sent me more information in a letter dated April 3, 1986 and then again on October 29, 2000. Wayne referred
me to a cousin, Charlie Rathbun of Jasper, Georgia, who enhanced this information considerably due to his
extensive family research. Charlie has a wealth of knowledge on the Stainbacks and has been researching them for
over twenty years. Most of the family data in this chapter prior to the mid 1800's timeframe, was obtained
primarily from him. I am merely the scribe who recorded his research and in doing so tried to develope an
interesting story line in which to present the family. I am truely in Charlie's debt for his help and friendship.

209

1st generation

Like many of our modern names, researchers think that the Stainback name is an offshoot of
another name. Some of the earlier spellings of the name were Stanback, Stainbacke,
Standback, Stainbank, Staynebanke, Staynbank, Staynebank or Stanebanke. These names
date back to the late 1400's in the Kendal area of Westmoreland County, England and are
generally found in that area of the country. Other variations of the name are Stayne, Stain,
and Stane, which come from a Viking Norse word meaning Stone. It is speculated that our
earliest ancestors most likely were part of the Viking invasion to this part of England around
1,000 A.D. The present spelling of the Stainback name was evident in England since the
1500’s.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1690

to come to America. He may have been like many people who came to America for religious
tolerance and to escape the religious persecution that they were facing in their countries.
With the arrival of the Quakers in Pennsylvania in 1656, the path was officially paved for
other religions to migrate to the colonies. The Puritans and Anglicans were quickly established
in most of the colonies. Baptists began to appear in a majority of the colonies, the Roman
Catholics and Protestants organized in Maryland, German religions surfaced sporadically and
then later came the Lutherans and Presbyterians. Religious diversity had become a dominate
part of colonial life and as a result, the population of America increased quickly. People from
all over the world wanted the freedom that was found in this land and they began to move
their homes to America. Consequently, religion was an important aspect in the colonializing
of America. Events such as the Salem Witchcraft Trials in the 1690's only increased the
influence of religion here. America had become a refuge.

1st generation

In Europe, 1690 was the beginning of King William's War and hostilities spilled over to the
colonies as the French formed an allegiance with the Indians and began a frontier war on the
English settlers. The American wilderness at this time was nasty and brutish. Malaria, dysentery and typhoid cut life expectancy on newcomers to ten years. Many came to this frontier
for land, riches or adventure, but adventure doesn't seem to be the case for William Stainback as he appeared to remain in the Tidewater region as opposed to the western areas.
There the plantations were beginning to emerge by 1690 and population centers grew with
commerce and government becoming established. The College of William and Mary was
founded in Williamsburg in 1693. Tobacco had become the big money crop in the South.
Rice also was a staple in the low country of South Carolina and the Southern coastal areas.
Naval stores were a big export from the Carolinas. Labor was being imported in the form of
indentured servants and slaves. The colonies grew by immigration more than by births during
the 17th Century.
William could have been one of the many who came to these shores to escape poverty, famine
or the law. We just don't know what drove William to these shores, but in 1690 he made the
trip from England. And what a trip it must have been! The journey to America during colonial
times was far from comfortable and often times deadly. The trip across the Atlantic was
sometimes as long as six months, if the voyage were made during the winter season. Food
and water were of the poorest quality and therefore many passengers did not survive the
journey. Many ships are known to have sunk midway and when possible this fact was concealed
so as not to discourage future emigrants. Emigrants in every port of departure faced swindlers
who would try to rob them of their life savings and the same was true once they arrived at the
American ports. Most emigrants traveled in the cheapest births which were steerage and this
meant that the journey was made with poor ventilation, overcrowded quarters, unsanitary
water and a minimum of food. These conditions led to the onset and spread of diseases such
as cholera and scurvy. A New York newspaper later called emigrant vessels “plague ships
and swimming coffins.” William Stainback was thirty years old at this time and probably
210

The William Stainback Family

North America in 1750

211

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1701

endured these conditions and kept himself alive due in part to a strong, young, physically
body, a determined enough character and stamina intent on making the voyage toward the
promise of a new life in this new land. His resolve was undoubtedly more than what most of
us today would be willing to experience. So it is now the year 1690 in this new land with a
wild, unexplored frontier on one side and a barely stable emerging society at the other end
with an infant economy, new and different peoples, new ideas, new religions, a colonial
government birthing from under the auspices of an old monarchial rule, a new social order and
now a new immigrant as William Stainback from Durham County, England steps foot in Charles
City County in the Virginia Province.

1st generation

The first known record of William Stainback, Sr. in America was the claim to head rights by
George Woodlief in 1690 in Charles City, County, Virginia. George Woodlief probably sold
them to the Reverend John Bannister of Charles City, Virginia in 1701. Headrights could be
sold or inherited and that is why there are so many claims on William Stainback in later
years.2 The headright system encouraged the importation of servant workers. Whoever paid
the passage for a laborer to the colonies received fifty acres of land. That person then had a
certain number of years to make the necessary improvements to the land, often times using
the people who they had imported as indentured servants to work the land. The head rights
were inheritable and salable so you may fine the same people claimed as head rights some
years later by different folks. This practice continued for quite some time because there was
a seemingly limitless quantity of land available for settlement. Britain collected more taxes as
more land was developed, more crops were raised and more money was flowing, so this
system was certainly supported by the Crown. The ability to amass large plots of land by
importing workers provided the basis for an emerging aristocracy in Virginia. Often however,
the person who claimed the headright did not transport anyone because he purchased or
traded the headright many years after the actual voyage. The law only required that you
gained title to the head right by paying, or dealing, or bargaining with someone who had
already transported the servant or had paid someone else for it. An entrepreneur, speculator,
ship's captain or ship owner may sell the headrights at the wharves to a broker. Or it could
also be purchased from the person/servant himself who had paid his own way over here. He
may want the money and then also become a servant of a artisan in order to learn a trade.
Many indentures passed through several hands before the land was claimed under that particular
"right." The implementation of the headright system was an important ingredient in Virginia’s
success. Land ownership gave many people a reason to work hard, with the assurance that
they were providing for their own futures. The average time of personal mortgage was from
three to seven years (average was four). One third of all colonial houses had indentured
servants. They were single, under the age of twenty-five and one-third of them usually were
women. However, in tidewater Virginia, 80% of the servants were men. The system seemed
2 I gathered the information concerning William Stainback's immigration to this country from a combination
of all three of Wayne Stainback's letters and also Charlie Rathbun's letter of June 1, 2003 and January 2011.

212

The William Stainback Family

“Mr. JOHN BANISTER, 1730 acs. Chas. City Co. in Bristoll Par., S. side of Apomatock
Riv., at a place known as HATCHER’s Run, running to a great parcell of Rocks, &c. 23
Oct. 1690, p. 111. Imp. of 35 pers: PHILLIS MILLINGTON, JOHN SPELL, ANNE
BERRY, SARAH POLLARD, JOHN ALLE, ANTHO. HACKET, GEWEN BERRY, WM.
TAYLOE, WM. BROWN, JNO. THOMAS, GILES WATERS, ELIZABETH HOLLIS,
WILLIAM STANBACK, HUMPHRY HIX, FRANCIS HILL, MARY DREW, SANDERS BRUCE, MARTHA OCCONDON (?), WM. PRICE, THO. GENT, ROBT. ASTON
(or ACTON), JNO. ELLIS, JON. EGGERTON, WILLIAM SOUTHWAY, HESTER

1701

VAUGHAN, FRANCIS GOARD, WM. PRICE, JNO. DAVIS, NICH. DISON, WM.
DAVIES, ELINOR VAUGHAN, GABRIEI ARTHUR, SAML. BUXTON: ABRAHAM
& JENNY, Negroes.”
“THOMAS THROWER & GEORGE PASSMORE, 680 acs. Charles City Co., N. side of
JONES Hole Sw., & W. side of COTESUROH Br., beg. by the lower Nottaway Path,
neare THWEAT’s Br. to the Cherry Orchard Br., 24 Oct. 1701, p. 393. Trans. of 14 pers:
JONE JENKINS, EDWARD DARE, JOHN ALEE, ELIZA. DUCK, JOHN SPELL, WM.
BERRY, HUMPHRY HIX, ROBT. BARLOW, SARAH POLLARD. GEO. PASSMORE."
"JOHN PYTHRIS, Senr. of Deep Bottom, 350 acs. Chas. City Co., N. side of Nottaway
Riv., adj. 950 acs. patented by HUGH LEE, Junr. (& sold to WILLIAM JONES, Senr.,
ROBERT HIX, the taylor, Senr., & JOHN ROBERTS); to fork of Myery Br., parting
Tonatora old field, to the Indian Sw., 24 Oct. 1701, p. 396. Trans. of 7 pers: JOHN LEE,
ROBERT BOREMAN, HUMPHRY HIX, Hen. SNETGROVE, MARY DRIN, N.
STANBACK, WM. LAMBUT." 3

3 Nell Marion Nugent, Cavaliers and Pioneers: Abstracts of Virginia Land Patents and Grants, 1695 1732, Richmond, Virginia, 1979.

213

1st generation

STANDBACK, MARY HILLES SPENCER, THOMAS HORN, JOHN BARLOW, ANNE

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

to work well as an apprentice system.

1704

It is quite possible that William Stainback the immigrant arrived sometime before his August
1690 head rights claim by George Woodlief. One of the people listed on the head right list
with William Stainback was Sarah Pollard. We know for certain that Sarah Pollard was here
prior to her head rights claim in August of 1690 as she married Edward Woodlief in June of
1690. Edward was the brother of George Woodlief. So, one can assume that William
Stainbacke could have arrived much earlier than August 1690, say sometime between 16801685. "Due George Woodleiffe 600 acres for the importation of 12 persons - among them
William Stainbacke."4

1st generations

Further evidence to prove that William Stainback arrived much earlier than his 1690 head
rights claim by George Woodlief is the fact that William Stainback helped provide a 30,000
pound tobacco bond in October of 1692 for the administration of the estate of Timothy
Reevs. "Administration of the estate of Timothy Reevs committed to Mary, his relict. She,
and William Stainback and Thomas Lewis give bond of 30,000 pounds of tobacco for the
administration of his estate."5 It's highly unlikely that William Stainback could have arrived in
August of 1690, worked off his indenture, and acquired enough land and money to help post
this bond. William Stainback's share of the bond would have been about 15,000 pounds of
tobacco and that was a significant amount of wealth in those days. It's even possible that
William Stainback was not indentured and he arrived in Virginia with some wealth making it
easier to provide his share of the tobacco bond. But whether he was indentured or not, it
seems certain that William Stainback arrived sometime in the 1680-1685 time frame.
William Stainback was getting a foothold now in this new land and after establishing himself
for a short while, he found a wife. Her first name is unknown, but she was born about 1665
as the daughter of John Burge, probably in Charles City County.6 They remained in Charles
City County, began to establish their household and immediately started raising a family. They
had three sons that we know about, who were William Stainback, Jr. (born about 1690),
Thomas Stainback (born about 1693) and John Stainback (born after 1696). Not much is
given in the records about William Stainback the immigrant during his years in Charles City
Co., Virginia. However, in 1704 he appears in the Rent Rolls of Prince George Co., Virginia
with 150 acres. He most likely didn't move to Prince George County, but instead was living
4 Weisiger, Charles City Court Orders 1687-1695, page 85 (p. 296), from Rathbun letter of January 2011.
5 Ibid., page 136 (p. 421).
6 For a little bit more "extended family" information, in addition to William Stainback's wife, John Burge also
was the father to another daughter who married Richard Tidmarsh, and also to a son named Thomas Burge.
William had his son William Stainback, Jr., Richard had a son Richard Tidmarsh III and then Thomas Burge
had his son John Burge. It is believed that these families were related in this manner as in the Richard
Tidmarsh will of 1725 he mentions William Stainback [Jr.] and John Burge as 'loving cozens.'

214

The William Stainback Family

in that part of Charles City County that was later cut off to form Prince George County. It is
here in Prince George County that William Stainback begins to acquire much of his land and
wealth. In 1708 he purchased seventy acres of land in Prince George County from John
Woodlief. This property was located to the south of and adjacent to "Sion Hill" which was
the Woodlief Plantation on the James River.

William Stainback, Sr. acquired more land in the next decade as it is recorded that he started
deeding and selling land. Immigration and land ownership benefited the tax base and fueled
the economy, so since land was plentiful the government entities promoted both aspects through
legislation. "On June 21, 1699, the Governor and Council established the treasury right,
whereby a person paying five shillings to the auditor gained 'the same liberty to take up and
patent fifty acres of lands which [he] would otherwise have had for the Importacon [importation]
of any of his majesties Subjects into this Dominion.'"7 William Stainback was strong financially
and savvy in his business transactions as he profited by acquiring property in this manner.
"William Stainback, 200 acres (new land), Prince George County; May 2, 1713, page 77.
On the gr. br. [great branch?] of Jones Hole Swamp to William Ram's line. Imp [importation?]
of 4 persons: John Jackson, John Prier, Thomas Bennet, Alendar Sutton."8
7 Nell Marion Nugent, Cavaliers and Pioneers: Abstracts of Virginia Land Patents and Grants, 1695 1732, Richmond, Virginia, 1979, Volume III, Patent Book 10, page vii.
8 Ibid., page 130.

215

1712

1st generation

I stated earlier that it is impossible for us to know what brought William Stainback to the
Virginia shores and I trust that the move here met his expectations. He evidently applied
himself over the next few years as he was able to purchase property sometime around 1710.
Tragedy struck him however as he was just beginning to get established in the community by
expanding his real estate holdings and raising his young family. His wife died sometime around
1710. Fortunately for him, his children were not too young and that made it easier on him
maintaining the household and looking after everyone by himself. In 1710, William, Jr. was
twenty, Thomas was seventeen and his youngest child John was fourteen. William's success
with his farm and other property surely was due in part to the fact that he had three young,
strong men as sons to help with the work and management of their property. Now however,
they were all going to have to pitch in around the house with cooking and maintaining the
homeplace. But their time as bachelors was short-lived as two years later in 1712, William
married Onah Eppes. She was the daughter of William and Elizabeth Eppes of Prince George
County, Virginia and was born in 1690. William certainly was close to the Eppes family as in
1710 he had witnessed the will of his future wife's father. In 1712 William was fifty-two years
old and his young wife was just twenty-two; the same age as her stepson William, Jr. and just
slightly older than his brothers. But an older man and a younger wife was probably normal
then.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

In 1713 he deeded half of a 100 acre tract that he had patented in 1712 to his son William
Stainback, Jr. "January 7, 1716 William Stainback of Prince George County to John Hill Jr.
of same, 100 acres in Bristol Parish on the Great Branch of Jones Hole Swamp next to
William Raines for seven pounds. Witnesses: Daniel Higdon, Peter Poythress, and Michael
Rosser. Signed: William Stainback and Onah X Stainback." William's family continued to
grow now that he had a new young wife as in 1715 their son Francis Stainback was born in
Prince George County, Virginia. Then two years later in 1717 Littlebury Stainback was born
to them.
1738

1st generation

These were exciting times in the colonies as changes, new land development and population
growth were happening very fast. In 1712 the Carolina colony was officially divided into
North Carolina and South Carolina. The Spanish were in Florida and the French had founded
New Orleans in 1718, so in just a few short years these Europeans were beginning to
aggressively push into the frontier. It was during this time that William married, raised a family
of boys and became established in his community. He probably was a farmer like most of the
population. By 1720 the population of the American colonies reached 475,000, with Boston
the largest city (12,000), followed by Philadelphia (10,000) and then New York (7,000).
Even though there were no large cities near William, tidewater Virginia was developing as a
strong economic and governmental center of life and Virginia held much influence in the loose
colonial structure. Independent ideas were certainly forming as this colony developed and
concepts of a new free government began to emerge. In 1727 King George II ascended to
the English throne and in 1732 George Washington was born, just as William was slowing
down now in his later years. In the early to mid 1700's most settlers did not venture too far
inland and William seemed to remain in this general area for his lifetime as well. They would
not have to go far before they would have left English civilization and safety and would be
subjecting themselves and their families to the hazards of the frontier. William Stainback died
in 1738 at the approximate age of seventy-eight. It is not known when Onah died or where
they were both buried, but it is assumed to be near their home in the vicinity of Charles City,
Virginia near Jones Hole Swamp.9

The children of William Stainback, Sr.
I would normally try to cover the lives of the children in the order of their age, but since
William Stainback, Jr. is my direct lineage, I am going to mention the other children first and
return to him later for our story to continue.
9 Charlie Rathbun's letter to me dated May 31, 2003 validates William Stainback's time of death: "Most of
these early (land) records do a great job of distinguishing between William Stainback, Sr. and William Stainback,
Jr. William Sr. died some time after 1725 (when he witnessed the Richard Tidmarsh will), because the records
no longer distinguish between Sr. and Jr. The family outline on the bext page illustrates the relationship
between William Stainback and Richard Tidmarsh. Also, in circa 1718 William Stainback, Sr. was excused
from levy which usually only happened when someone was old or infirm.

216

The William Stainback Family

JOHN BURGE

WILLIAM EPPS

UNKN. BURGE STAINBACK
THOMAS BURGE
UNKN. BURGE TIDMARSH
RICHARD TIDMARSH

ONAH EPPES STAINBACK

ELIZABETH EPPES

JOHN BURGE
RICHARD TIDMARSH

(to page 234)

WILLIAM STAINBACK, SR.

WILLIAM STAINBACK, JR
UNKN. WOODLIEF STAINBACK
THOMAS STAINBACK
MARY UNKN. STAINBACK
JOHN STAINBACK
UNKN. HAMLIN STAINBACK

FRANCIS STAINBACK
MARY UNKN. STAINBACK

1725

LITTLEBURY STAINBACK
ELIZABETH UNKN. STAINBACK

Thomas dies sometime before October 1725 at the age of thirty-two and leaves his wife and
young daughter of only three years old. His name also appears in the Charles City County,
Virginia records when an inventory was taken of his estate in 1725. "20 October 1725
Inventory of Thomas Stonebanks. Value 16/18/0. From the inventory, Thomas was a
Blacksmith."11 His wife Mary passes away shortly as she dies a year or so later, sometime
after 1726 at the age of twenty-six and in doing so leaves their child parentless. With much
family close by, no doubt that she was taken in and raised by a family member.

10 The statute creating Bristol Parish on both sides of the Appomattox River, from the mouth up to the falls
in then Charles City & Henrico Counties, did not give the name of the "parent" parish. When Prince George
County was formed from Charles City in 1702 that part of Bristol Parish went too. When Dale Parish was
formed in 1735, it included that part of Bristol Parish in Henrico Co. When Dinwiddie County was formed
from Prince George Co in 1752, Bristol Parish served both counties.
11 Charles City County, Virginia D, W, etc. 1724/25-1731, page 57.

217

2nd generation

Thomas Stainback
It is assumed that Thomas Stainback was a son of William Stainback, Sr. In the early records
of Charles City Co., Virginia, Thomas Stainback's name is spelled "Stonebank." There is no
definitive proof that he was a son of William Stainback the immigrant, but because of the
closeness of their last name and the proximity in which they lived, it is assumed that he was a
son. It appears that Thomas was a blacksmith by occupation. However, as an adult we find
Thomas Stainback living in Charles City County and at the age of twenty-seven he married a
women named Mary (last name not known). Mary was twenty years old at that time. Two
years after they were married they had a daughter as he appears in the Bristol Parish register
with the birth of his daughter Mary, who was born on October 10, 1722. She was named
after her mother as the birth register names Thomas' wife as Mary Stonebank. Mary was
born in Bristol Parish in Prince George County (formerly Charles City County), Virginia which
further helps to locate her parents place of residence.10

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

John Stainback
John Stainback was born about 1696 in Charles City County and in 1722 at the age of
twenty-six he married who is thought to be a Hamlin woman (first name not known). She was
about twenty-two years old when they married and was the daughter of John and Ann Goodrich
Hamlin, also of Prince George County, Virginia. John and his wife lived their lives in Charles
City County and raised their four children there. John Stainback passes away at the age of
about sixty-one, just before1758.
1775

Their first child was John Stainback, Jr. who was born about 1725. He eventually moved to
North Carolina as he died sometime before February 21, 1775 in Bertie County. Jane
Stainback came next in 1728 and was married to Jeremiah White about 1750. John's third
child was Peter Stainback who was born around 1733. He married about 1764, but his wife
(name unknown) died sometime before 1785. Peter eventually moved to Nottoway County,
Virginia where he dies in 1807. Thomas Stainback came next in 1735 and like his brother
John, also moved to Bertie County where he died sometime before May 7, 1779.

2nd generation

The last child born to John Stainback was a son Charles who was born in 1738. Charles
Stainback was one of our ancestors who risked everything for the cause of freedom and
liberty. I don't know exactly when he left Nottoway County to enlist, but I do know that by
December 1777 he was serving as a private under Captain Lewellen Jones in the Fourth
Troop of the 1st Virginia Regiment, Light Dragoons, commanded by Colonel Theodorick
Bland. This regiment was part of Muhlenberg's Brigade, in the
5th Division of the American Continental Army.
The 1st Virginia Regiment had been authorized by the Virginia
Convention of July 17, 1775, as a provincial defense unit
composed of six musket and two rifle companies under the
command of Patrick Henry. Each company was to consist of 68
enlisted men, with officers to include a captain, lieutenant and
ensign (second lieutenant). On December 28, 1775, the
Continental Congress in Philadelphia recommended that each
regiment should have 10 companies, and the 1st Virginia soon
raised two more musket companies.
The 1st regiment saw service in the tidewater area as State Troops
engaged against the supporters of Virginia's Royal Governor, Lord
Dunmore. Dunmore made several attempts to gain a stronghold
on the colony but in August 1776 he abandoned Virginia. On
February 15, 1776, the regiment was accepted into the new
The 4th Earl of Dunmore
Continental Line authorized by Congress in Philadelphia and on
August 16th they began the long march north to join General (Virginia's last Royal Governor).
218

The William Stainback Family

Washington's Grand Army
in New York City. On
September 15, 1776, the
Virginians caught up with
Washington's army near
Harlem Heights, New York
and engaged the British
there in a small conflict.

These Virginians assisted in the attack on the British at Princeton, forcing them out in a rout.
They then spent the winter of 1776 with Washington's army at Morristown, New Jersey. The
fifteen Virginia Regiments had a total of 2,925 men fit for duty, averaging less than 200 men
each. Troop strength was low because of expired enlistments, disease, and battle casualties.
The 1st Virginia could only muster 64 privates present and fit for duty, and all troops were in
need of clothing and other necessities.
Washington's troops spent the winter and spring recruiting and rebuilding the army. The main
British Army under General Howe eventually sailed his troops from New York to Head of
Elk, Maryland where they began to march on Philadelphia. On August 24, 1777, Washington's
Army of 16,000 regulars and militia marched through Philadelphia to Wilmington, Delaware,
and by September 11, the two armies were poised for battle near Brandywine Creek,
Pennsylvania. Washington was outmaneuvered at Brandywine, but they had fought a larger
British force and managed to hold them at bay. The British entered Philadelphia unopposed
on September 26th. Continuing to look for a favorable opportunity to engage the British,
Washington decided to attack a large British force garrisoned at Germantown, Pennsylvania,
but to no avail.
Imagine Charles' experience when leaving the comforts of tidewater Virginia and his family
219

1776

2nd generation

By the end of December
1776, Gen. Washington's
Washington crossing the Delaware River 1776
immediate army had shrunk
from casualties, disease, desertion, and the termination of enlistments to about 2,500 men fit
for duty. In the hope of seizing another morale victory, if not a strategic one, Washington
decided on a daring attack on Hessian troops at Trenton, New Jersey. In the early morning
hours of December 26, Washington's small band, including the First Virginia, crossed the
Delaware River, reaching the outskirts of Trenton about 8:00 am. The surprised Hessians
tried in vain to hold off the Americans, but by 9:45 am the Germans were forced to surrender.
I wonder if Charles Stainback was a part of this heroic event and crossed the frozen river
with Washington that cold December night, but because there are no records available which
document his enlistment, we just don't know exactly when he joined this unit.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1777

2nd generation

and marching for months up north to engage the British in a mortal struggle. Charles was
thirty-eight years old, a grown man by any standards and now tried on the field of battle.
These men probably didn't view their lot in life as difficult, as life for them was difficult to
begin with, but they certainly gained a new appreciation for that life as it had become more
special with each engagement of the enemy. Each day on the battlefield and each day without
food and each day struggling against freezing weather made life for Charles and his compatriots
very special indeed. But they were there for a noble purpose - to rid this land of tyranny and
preserve the spirit of a budding liberty among free men. I wish I knew when Charles enlisted
so that we could follow the time frame of his career as we trace the various encounters that
the 1st regiment had with the British. Charles could have joined in 1775 when he heard that
Col. Bland was forming the troop, or maybe it was in 1776 and he became caught up in all of
the local fervor going on in tidewater Virginia concerning Lord Dunmore being run out of the
state, or maybe he stayed in Virginia and joined only shortly before the winter at Valley Forge.
In any case, it now was December 1777, winter was upon them as they approached Valley
Forge and we do know that at this time Charles was among the troop. Charles Stainback
was listed on a muster roll in December 1777 as being present and "fit for duty" when they
arrived at Valley Forge. He survived the winter there as subsequent muster rolls listed him
present and fit for the whole six month duration through the winter until they broke camp in
June 1778 to pursue the British.12 I don't mean for this to be a history lesson in the
Revolutionary War, but Charles was making history and we would do well to follow his
courage and determination as we preserve that history. We should forever remember the
sacrifices and commitment to freedom by these patriots as they are responsible for the liberties
and freedom that we enjoy today.
Washington chose Valley Forge as from there he could monitor the British who had taken
refuge from the winter in a comfortable setting in Philadelphia, but the American Army was
also far enough away not to be surprised if the British decided to leave their warm hearths and
move against them. As you know, the British chose not to venture out and instead to stay
warm by forcing themselves into the homes of the local population. Meantime the Americans
now had to also fight mother nature as they built their log huts for shelter, forage the countryside
for food and fight off disease. Many of the officers of the Virginia Regiments were sent home
during the winter to recruit for their vastly under-strength units. The Continental Army at
Valley Forge, including the men of the 1st Virginia, were taught the new American drill under
the command of Maj. Gen. Baron von Steuben. During the winter, Howe returned to England
and Gen. Henry Clinton took command of the British in Philadelphia.
I've mentioned that Charles Stainback was a member of the Light Dragoons. The word
12 The Friends of Valley Forge Park,Valley Forge Muster Roll, lists Charles Stainback (recorded as Stanback),
as present and fit for duty each month from December, 1777 through June 1778. Gains M. Brumbaugh,
Revolutionary War Records, Virginia, Genealogical Publishing Company, Inc., Baltimore, page 268 and 695
note that Charles Stainback served as an infantry soldier.

220

The William Stainback Family

dragoon originally meant mounted infantry, who were trained in horse riding as well as infantry
fighting skills. However, usage altered over time and during the 18th century, dragoons evolved
into conventional light cavalry units. Dragoon
regiments were established in most European
armies during the late 17th century and early 18th
century. Early dragoons were not organized in
squadrons or troops as were cavalry, but in
companies like the infantry: their officers and
noncommissioned officers bore infantry ranks.
Dragoon regiments used drummers, not buglers,
to communicate orders on the battlefield. The
flexibility of mounted infantry made dragoons a
useful arm, especially when employed for what
would now be termed "internal security" against
smugglers or civil unrest, and on line of
communication security duties.

The uniform shown is that of Captain Bland’s own troop, of which Charles Stainback was a
member. Charles was thirty-eight years old at this time so he probably looked much like the
man in this illustration. Some of the companies were uniformed in blue coats faced with red,
and others in brown faced with green. All had leather breeches and top boots. At first, their
helmets were of leather with white horsehair crest, but later were of steel or brass, turned up
at the base with black bearskin and had long flowing horsehair crests of white or black
imported from France, or captured from the enemy. They were armed at first with only the
saber and pistols, but after 1777 they had, in addition, carbines or short muskets with a
sling.13
I am estatic to think that we had an ancestor who gave of himself during extremely harsh
conditions and braved the winter there in Pennsylvania. How easy it would have been for
him, like so many others decided to do, to turn his back on his comrades-in-arms and head
13 The information about the uniform and history of the dragoons came from Charles Campbell, ed., The
Bland Papers of Colonel Theodorick Bland, Jr., Petersburg, Va., 1843, VOL I, 55, 88, 89; Force’s American
Archives, 5th ser., vol. III, 1270; and Anburey’s Travels (1789), II, 320-321. Charles Stainback's service is
documented by John Gwathney, Historical Register of Virginiana in the Revolution 1775-1783, Genealogical
Publishing Company, Inc., Baltimore, 1979, page 735, where he lists Charles Stainback as a member of the
1st Light Dragoons.

221

2nd generation

These Dragoons, known later as the 1st
Continental Regiment of Light Dragoons, under
the command of Colonel Theodorick Bland, were
raised in various towns in Virginia in 1775, for
Virginia Light Dragoons 1777
service in that state. They were ordered to join
Washington’s Army in December, 1775, and at that time consisted of six troops under command
of Major Bland, and were familiarly known in the army as the “Virginia Horse.”

1777

A History of Selected North Carolina Families
15

15 It seemed a little strange to me that both dollars and pounds were used in these pay records. Upon
inquiring of this, the archive desk at the Virginia State Library informed me that it was because the monetary
system was in such a state of transition. The symbol for pence, as shown above, was a d. £sd (sometimes
pronounced, and occasionally written, L.s.d.) was the popular name for the pre-decimal currencies (sterling)
used in the Kingdom of England, later the United Kingdom, and ultimately in much of the British Empire.
This abbreviation meant "pounds, shillings, and pence" and was usually pronounced that way, having originated
from the Latin words "librae, solidi, denarii." Under this system, there were 12 pence in a shilling and 20
shillings, or 240 pence, in a pound. A penny was, until 1960, further subdivided into four farthings. I have
included several pay records for Charles in the Stainback Appendix.
Notice that Charles was literate, as he signed his name legibly on this document for receiving his pay. He was given
8 1/3 dollars as a Private for thirty days service. Surprisingly, many were able to sign their names as only a few had
to place an X in place of their signature. Copies of his other pay records are in the Stainback Appendix.

222

The William Stainback Family

south for the comforts of Virginia and home. I like to think that Charles stayed due to his
commitment to the cause, his ideals of liberty and a moral obligation coupled with courage
and intestinal fortitude to follow Washington as he had promised when enlisted. This winter in
Valley Forge became the defining point for this young army and they emerged in the spring as
a hardened, trained fighting force. As a private Charles and several thousand like him who
decided to stay the course under extreme conditions were the very essence of this army and
responsible for our eventually becoming a new nation.14
By June, Clinton decided to move his army back to New York City, and Washington saw an
opportunity to take on the British with his newly trained Army. On June 28, 1778 Washington
ordered Maj. Gen. Charles Lee with 2,000 men to attack the rear of the marching British
column. Lee's force joined by 1,500 Americans under Brig. Gen. Charles Scott, soon found
themselves facing the entire British Army. General Lee retreated while the Americans under
Scott held until surrounded and then they too retreated in good order. Falling back about two
miles, the retreating Americans ran into General Washington riding ahead of the main American
Army.

By September 1778, the entire Virginia Continental Line was reduced in strength due to the
hardships of campaign and disease and the end of 3-year enlistments for many of the soldiers.
We have pay records showing that Charles Stainback was present, fit for duty and receiving
pay through November 1778. I don't know if he continued with his military career or, as has
just been mentioned, quite possibly like the others his term of enlistment was over and he
went home to Virginia. There are just not any more records available that I have found which
show his military involvement after this date, except for an entry in December 1783 which has
him receiving pay for the "balance" of his service. This could have been late pay for earlier
14 I would like to delve into Charles' experience at Valley Forge so you can fully appreciate the hardships of
the soldiers there, but that would be redundant. I spend considerable time doing just that in the Fawn
Chapter which follows, so when you read that chapter reflect on the fact that William Fawn's cousin Charles
Stainback was there also.

223

2nd generation

Washington managed to halt the retreat and form the Americans into a line of battle while
more troops arrived to extend the line on high ground. When the British arrived they made
several attacks but without coordination each was repulsed. In Sterling's Brigade, Charles
Stainback and the 1st Virginia, alongside the 1st and 3rd New Hampshire Regiments, attacked
the 42nd Royal Highland Regiment. Both sides exchanged volleys at short range with the
Highlanders forced to retreat from the field. Several men of the First Virginia were killed,
while the Highlanders sustained heavy casualties. By the end of the afternoon, heat had also
taken the lives of men on both sides of the field. Both armies rested overnight and Clinton
moved the British on toward New York early the next morning. With the Americans standing
up to and repulsing the British, the battle was considered a great victory for Washington and
his Army.

1777

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

services rendered, as it was on a pay record with the heading " A List of Soldiers of the
Virginia Line on Continental Establishment who have received Certificates for the balance of
there [their] full pay Agreeable to an Act of Assembly passed November Session 1781."16

1777

I'll assume then that Charles went home at this time and did not stay with the Light Dragoons
until the end of the war. But just to close out the efforts of his comrades however (and in case
he did remain), let me note that a year later in December 1779, the First Virginia, along with
most of the Virginia troops in the north, began the long march south to join in the defense of
Charleston, South Carolina. The war had drawn to a stalemate in the north and the British
had turned their attention to our Southern states. Only 700 of the 2,000 men from Virginia
that had started the march in December arrived in Charleston.

2nd generation

The British under General Clinton arrived by sea and began the siege of Charleston on April
14th. By April 21st, the Americans in the city were cut off on the land side as well. By May
7th, provisions were low with casualties mounting daily. After conferring with his officers,
General Lincoln agreed to surrender terms on May 12, 1780. Over 5,000 American troops
were captured, including almost all of the Virginia Continental Line. Many of the captured
were moved to harsher conditions aboard British prison ships where many perished or remained
until the end of the war. Most of Virginia's Continental's were mustered out of service in June
1783, with the final three companies of the first being discharged in July or August.
Francis Stainback
You will recall that William Stainback's first wife died and he had two children by his second
marriage. The first of these was Francis Stainback who was born about 1715. Francis grew
up with his siblings at their home near Jones Hole Swamp in Prince George County. I assume
that like most of the population he was a farmer, but he wasn't tied to his father's land as he
moved to Brunswick County, Virginia. Francis Stainback received 300 acres in Brunswick
County for one pound, ten shillings as recorded in the Patent Book during the 1738-1739
session, along with his half-nephews, George and Thomas Stainback (sons of his brother
William Stainback, Jr.), who also received similar acreage.17
A couple of years after this transaction, Francis Stainback married a woman named Mary
(last name unknown), about 1740 in Brunswick County, Virginia. They set up their home in
Brunswick County, raised their family there and remained living there for the rest of their lives.
Mary was born about 1720, so she was about five years younger than her husband and
twenty years old when she was wed. She stayed busy as approximately two years after their
16 The National Archives, Revolutionary War Rolls, compiled 1894, Muster rolls, payrolls and other
miscellaneous personal recordes of American Army units, 1775-83, folder 6, pages 7, 13, 20, 26.
payroll is sown on the previous page and also in the Stainback Appendix.

This

17 Nell Marion Nugent, Cavaliers and Pioneers: Abstracts of Virginia Land Patents and Grants, 1695 - 1732,
Richmond, Virginia, 1979, Volume IV, Patent Book 18, page 179.

224

The William Stainback Family

marriage they had their first child and didn't finish with this until she had delivered eight children
over the course of the next nineteen years. Their first child was Littlebury Stainback who was
born about 1742. In 1733 he married Lucy Robinson, daughter of Edward Robinson, who
was born in 1743 in Brunswick County, and they had five children; John, Elizabeth, Robinson,
Mary and Rebecca. The next child was Mary Stainback who was born about 1745 and
married a Mr. Abernathy. Susannah Stainback came next about 1750 and on August 5, 1771
married Richard Hartwell, born 1745. They had eight children; Mary, Anne, Elizabeth, John,
Emanuel, Pascal, Edmund and Littlebury. The fourth child of Francis and Mary Stainback
was Sarah, who was born about 1753. About 1773 she married Benjamin Hancock, born
January 8, 1751/1752 and they had five children; Clement, Elizabeth, Martha, Francis and
Mary. Next came Rebecca Stainback who arrived about 1755. About 1775 she married
Thomas Wilson, Jr., born about 1750, and they had eight children; Elizabeth, Henry, Francis,
Thomas, Mary, Littlebury, William and Rebecca. Francis Stainback, Jr. was born next about
1759 and on December 20, 1783 he married Sarah Hardaway who was born about 1763 to
John and Rebecca Hardaway. They had three children; Rebecca, Hardaway and Littlebury.
The last child born to Francis and Mary was Elizabeth, about 1761. On January 27, 1782
she married James McInvale, born on January 27, 1782. Francis Stainback died sometime
before June 28, 1779 in Brunswick County and his wife Mary followed him sometime later.

225

2nd generation

Littlebury Stainback
Littlebury Stainback was the last child of William and Onah Stainback. He was born about
1717 in Prince George County. He married a woman named Elizabeth (last name unknown),
about 1740. She was born about 1722 in Prince George County so naturally they were
married there also. They both remained in their home county for their complete married life
and raised their family of three boys there. They began their family immediately as their first
born was Francis Stainback who came in their first year together. Francis married a woman
in about 1761 but her name is unknown. They had a son, Edmund Stainback, born to them in
1762. Tragedy struck this young couple however as just four short years after their marriage
she passed away. Pregnancy was hard on women and their infant children during this time.
Many women had babies every few years as often their main role in the household was to
bear and raise children. Often they were haunted by the "birthing bed" as all feared pregnancy
due to its difficulties and problems. I don't know if this was the case with Francis Stainback's
wife, but with divorce being frowned upon, birthing or illness could have taken her away. But
something bad obviously happened to her. Francis stayed single for another seventeen years
and raised his son by himself. Then in 1782 he married again. It is thought that his new wife
was named Pamela Ann Epes. They lived on the plantation "Fountains" in Prince George
County, Virginia. Francis and Pamela had at least two children that we know of and the first
was Littlebury Epes Stainback who was born on December 8, 1783. Littlebury Stainback
married Sarah Drummond and became a prominent merchant in the Norfolk and Petersburg,
Virginia areas. Much of this information comes from his Bible. Their daughter was named
Virginia Epes Stainback (born in 1821 and died in 1876). She married Robert Emmett

1777

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

Robinson, who is thought to be a descendant of
Pocahontas.18 The second child of Francis and Pamela
Stainback was Mary and she was born about 1785. Mary
married Patrick Andrews.
Francis Stainback obviously had a hard side to him. The
following is an excerpt from a newspaper stating the situation
when he was arrested in 1788:
1777

Petersburg, April 3.
"The beginning of last month, Francis Stainback,
of Prince George County, was apprehended,
charged with having murdered a negro woman.
The jury of inquest were unanimous in opinion
that her death was occasioned by severe
Virginia Epes Stainback
whipping; but, by a certificate from a surgeon
who attended her, it appears her death was occasioned by violent pleurisy.
On a Saturday next he is to be tried by the Court of Prince George."19

2nd generation

It seems that if the surgeon stated that she died of pleurisy and therefore was not murdered,
then Francis was probably acquitted of this charge. It's a shame that he was charged with it
to begin with as he obviously was suspected of treating her very badly. I write in this book
about the actions of our ancestors of whom I am very proud and sometimes I may make the
events and their lives seem somewhat more glamorous than they actually were, but this is one
time when I can say I am disappointed in the actions of one of our ancestors. Hopefully this
was a mistake and not an indication of his character. Francis dies in 1799 and his wife
Pamela passed away in 1812 in Prince George County, Virginia.
William Stainback was the second son born to Littlebury and Elizabeth Stainback when he
came about 1744. He married Ann Lamboth and they raised three daughters; Elizabeth,
Rebecca and Anne Stainback. All three girls were born in Bristol Parish in Prince George
County, Virginia. I don't know when Ann died, but William Stainback passed away in
Petersburg, Dinwiddie County, Virginia about 1784. Even thought he died in another county,
they possibly may not have moved as Dinwiddie County was formed from part of Prince
George County in 1752.
The last son born to Littlebury and Elizabeth Stainback was Littlebury Stainback, Jr. who
was born about 1746 in Prince George County. Littlebury was thirty years old when hostilities
18 Robert Emmett Robinson's lineage to Pocohantas goes back through his mother's line, who were Murrays.
It is fairly well documented on several internet genealogical sites that this Murray family is related to the
Boiling Family, who are tied to the Rolf Family and eventually back to Pocohantas.
19 The Pennsylvania Packet and Daily Advertiser, April 18, 1788, GenealogyBank.com.

226

The William Stainback Family

broke out with the British. The colonies had just declared their
independence and our first army was composed of troops raised
by the different new "states" upon a request for troops by
Congress, as Congress at this time had no authority to levy taxes
and therefore raise an army. The power to establish taxes and
provide for an army and navy came after the Constitutional
Convention would meet in the future and establish the powers
that a central government would need to operate a country and
protect itself. Washington had accepted command of the army
and they were engaged against the British troops at New York
and Philadelphia. Consequently, there was no navy at this time
British Ship of the Line
and the only offense that could be deployed at sea against the
"HMS Victory"
largest navy in the world was offered from each state and
individual enterprises. The British Navy controlled the shores of our new country with virtually
no opposition and therefore monitored and controlled the water traffic, commerce and trade
coming into and out of the country. This also gave them the opportunity to plunder along our
coast wherever they desired in order to provision their troops and sailors.

227

2nd generation

Virginia, along with the other Thirteen Colonies, was increasingly dissatisfied with the actions
of Lord Dunmore, the royal governor of the colony. After the Gunpowder Incident in April
1775 and the news of the war's outbreak with the Battles of Lexington and Concord, Dunmore,
fearing for his safety, fled with his family to a Royal Navy ship. From there, he attempted to
organize Loyalist forces in the colony to counter the rising rebellion. In order to counter his
ability to move around on the rivers of the state and in the Chesapeake Bay, the provisional
assembly voted in December 1775 to authorize the Committee of Safety to acquire and outfit
ships, and to hire officers and crew to operate them in an attempt to protect the colony's
waters from threats posed it by the Royal Navy. In doing so, they thusly created the (first)
Virginia State Navy (the second time Virginia had a navy was briefly at the outbreak of The
War Between The States). Over the next six months the committee acquired five ships and
ordered the construction of several more, and hired
its first captains, one of which was James Barron.
Ships were built on the eastern shore and in various
shipyards throughout the state, but were eventually
consolidated into facilities on the Chickahominy
River and at Gosport. Littlebury Stainback felt
the call to help his new country and joined the
Virginia State Navy. This was awesome to say
the least. Imagine fighting and harassing the great
Royal Navy with only a few sloops and very limited
firepower.
Later model American Sloop-of-war

1777

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

To take on the British Navy was a gutsy move. And it seemed that Littlebury and his fellow
sailors, even though inexperienced in the art of naval warfare, did themselves well as he was
able to fight in this capacity for a period of three years. Littlebury Stainback (Stanback in the
records), served on the Virginian sloop "Patriot," which was commanded by James Barron.
Barron later became Commodore of the Virginia State Navy. There is information in a Rejected
Pension Application for John Christian on July 7, 1833 which was signed by William Jennings
in which he verifies Littleberry’s service:
1777

"I William Jennings aged 80 years do hearby certify that I was acquainted
with Littlebury Stanback, and know that he enlisted during the year 1778
in the State Service during the Revolutionary War under Capt. Richd
Barron, who commanded the schooner Patriot, for three years and
continued in service during the period of his enlistment, after which he
returned to the county of Prince George and lived until he died. That the
said Stanback was in the engagement that Commander Taylor rec’d a
wound in one of his thighs - which was broken by a musket ball, and that
he was in several other engagements with myself, some of them
successful."

2nd generation

Further evidence of Littlebury's presence in the Virginia State Navy is based on a land warrant
(register) which names the sailors and soldiers from Virginia who fought in the Revolution.
That warrant was certified by Commodore James Barron.20 Additional evidence of Littlebury's
navy career is documented in a listing of the Land Bounty Warrants which shows Littlebury as
a sailor in the Virginia State Navy and receiving 100 acres from the state of Virginia as
payment.21 It states that on July 1, 1784 he served for three years. I don't think that he
actually claimed this land as it is located in what is now the state of Kentucky. Furthermore,
reference is also found in an additional document which note Littlebury as a sailor in the State
Navy for three years.22
Following the war Littlebury Stainback made his way back home. His family and friends
were probably as proud of him as we are, because there are very, very few people who can
say that they served in the navy against the British in the early 1780's. If he was released from
his assignment in 1784 as is stated in his documentation, then he immediately settled down
upon returning home because the next year he married a woman named Amelia (last name
20 Robert Armistead Stewart, The History of Virginia's Navy Of The Revolution, Genealogical Publishing
Co., Inc., Baltomore Maryland, 1993, page 249. A copy of this page is located in the Stainback Appendix and
shows Littlebury Stanback listed as "Able Seaman," by James Barron.
21 Samuel M. Wilson, Catalogue of Revolutionary Soldiers of the Commonwealth of Virginia to Whom Land
Bounty Warrents Were Granted, Clearfield Company, page 70.
22 Louis A. Burgess, Virginia Soldiers of 1776, compiled from documents on file in the Vriginia Land Office,
page 1213 mentions Littlebury Stainback as a sailor for three years. In addition, Gains M. Brumbaugh,
Revolutionary War records, Virginia, Genealogical Publishing Company, Inc., page 71 and page 374, list
Littlebury Stainback as a Seaman in the Virginia State Navy.

228

The William Stainback Family

unknown). She was born about 1770 in Prince George County. They had three children;
Wilkins Stainback in about 1787, Peter W. Stainback in 1791 and Susannah J. Stainback
who was born about 1793. Littlebury Stainback, Jr. died about 1799 and his wife Amelia
died in 1812.
I'm not sure when Elizabeth Stainback passed away but Littlebury Stainback, Sr. died in
1777 at the age of sixty.

William Stainback, Jr. probably was a farmer. This is just an assumption, but it seems to be a
logical one as he had bought a farm like most everyone in the early half of the 18th century as
the population generally were farmers. He remained in Prince George County, Virginia where
he raised his children, all of which seem to have been sons. His oldest son was William
Stainback, III, who was born around 1713. Their second son was John Stainback, who was
born in 1715. It seems like these children almost were planned exactly two years apart as in
1717 George Stainback was born. Then in 1719 Thomas Stainback came to them.
William Stainback, Jr. died sometime prior to 1739 in Charles City County, Virginia. In May
1739 his will was exhibited in court by his executors who were his sons John and William.
The will was proved by John Woodlief, Sr., John Woodlief, Jr., Peter Wynn and Thomas
Poythress. The will no longer exists and seems to be lost forever. However, in June 1739, his
sons John and William returned his inventory.
At this point in time politics in the colonies continues to be a hot issue and land in America is
up for grabs because with land comes commerce, taxes and power. The year is 1754 and
The French and Indian War erupts on our frontier, which spreads to Europe as The Seven
Years War between Great Britain and France. George Washington leads a small number of
Americans to the Ohio Valley and they defeat the French, but he is later defeated and retreats.
The population in America has grown by 1760 to reach 1,500,000 people. George III becomes
the King of England. The Sugar Act is passed by Parliament to offset the expense of the
229

1777

2nd generation

William Stainback, Jr.
I'll continue our lineage now as we go back and pick up the other child of William Stainback,
by his first wife. William Stainback, Jr. you recall, was born about 1690 in Charles City
County, Virginia. It is thought that he married a Woodlief woman (first name unknown) about
1713 in Prince George County. She was the daughter of John Woodlief and was born about
1692, also in Charles City County. The Stainbacks and Woodliefs were recorded in a lot of
documents together during this time period and in 1722 William Stainback, Jr. bought 300
acres from George and Norah (Eppes) Woodlief. This land was in Martin's Brandon Parish
on the great swamp, being the manor plantation where George Woodlief lived. George
Woodlief was William Stainback, Jr.'s brother-in-law and it was approximately this time also
when George and Norah moved to North Carolina.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

French and Indian War which immediately causes a political crises in America due to new
taxes being imposed.

1777

In 1765 the English Parliament passed the Stamp Act, which was the first time in 150 years
that the Americans were going to pay a tax which was not created by their own legislatures in
America and was paid directly to England. The Quartering Act was passed this year also
which required that Americans house British troops in their homes and supply them with food.
These measures incensed the free spirit in the Americas and consequently continued to push
the colonists on the edge of violence against the British Crown.
The children of William Stainback, Jr.
William Stainback III was the first born son to William and his wife (Woodlief), but as he is
our direct descendant we are going to briefly mention his siblings first and then return to him
with the rest of our story line.
John Stainback
I have little information on John Stainback's life except to simply say that he was born about
1715 in Prince George County and was the second son in this family.

3rd generation

George Stainback
George Stainback was their next son and he was born about 1717, but moved as an adult to
Brunswick County where he married and raised his family. His first marriage was in 1738,
but we don't know the name of his wife. We do know however, that she was born around
1720 so he was twenty-one years old and she was eighteen when they married. George and
his new wife did not waste any time in starting a family as their first born child was William
Stainback who came their first year of marriage.
William had seven children; Martha born about 1769, Charlotte born about 1775, Elizabeth
born about 1780, Henry born about 1783, George born on February 20, 1785, Jane born
about 1787 and John who was born about 1789. William died on April 28, 1834 in Brunswick
County.
The next child born to George was another son about 1740, who was John Stainback. John
moved to Granville County, North Carolina as an adult, married Patty Davis in 1769 and they
raised three children while living there; William born about 1771, Forrester born about 1775
and Martha born about 1780. Like many of the adult male population he, as well as his
brother James, served as a member of the militia from Granville County. John Stainback died
sometime before 1782 as that is when he was absent from any tax records. "Patty" Davis
Stainback appears to have moved sometime to Warren County as it is believed that she might
be the one lister there on the 1790 census.

230

The William Stainback Family

George Stainback's next child was Mary Stainback who was born about 1742 in Brunswick
County, Virginia. She married William Mitchell and had one child who was Randolph Mitchell.
She later married a Mr. Woodruff about 1765 and then her third marriage was to James
McInvale in 1786. Thomas Stainback was George's next child and he was born about 1744.
Thomas married Mary Jennings and they had a house full of kids; Nancy born about 1777,
George born on December 30, 1780, David born in 1781, Martha born about 1783, Elizabeth
born about 1785 and finally Mary who was born about 1787. Thomas' wife Mary died about
1800 and sometime later he married Mary Morehead. They moved to Richmond County,
North Carolina where that is where he died in 1818.

1777

James Stainback was the next child of George Stainback and he was born in 1746. Like his
brother John, James moved to Granville County, North Carolina where he also served in the
local militia. James Stainback was unmarried and had no children. He died in 1778. Next
came George Stainback, Jr. in 1750. He married Louisa Dugger, moved to Mecklenburg
County and they had six children, who were James born about 1775, Mary born about 1776,
John born about 1779, Jean born about 1781, Sarah born about 1783 and Martha who was
born about 1788. George Stainback, Jr. died in 1788.

My can't you just imagine that they had a big time when this family got together. Just think
about Christmas time when all of George's family was home. He had his eight children, their
spouses and twenty-five grandchildren (not counting the grandchildren of two children that
we don't know anything about), gathered around his fireplace. And we are not even going to
consider all of the cousins that were living down the road. That crowd consumed a lot of
chicken and biscuits!
George Stainback, Sr.'s wife passes away sometime before 1764 in Brunswick County. He
is forty-seven years old and has eight children ranging in ages from twenty-six down to seven
years old. George's days certainly are busy. Thank goodness some of the older children are
around to assist him with the house and farm, but he has to be both father and mother now to
the younger ones who need his attention. I can't blame him for needing a wife to help with his
children and farm, but it does seem like he moved a little fast as not wasting any time, he
remarried the same year that his wife died. Anyway, George's second wife was Susannah
(last name not known) and she was born about 1717. They lived together for another thirty231

3rd generation

George's first three children were born in Brunswick County, Virginia, but then sometime
before 1781 he moved to Mecklenburg County, Virginia as that is where his other children
were born. Robert Stainback came next to George Stainback, Sr. when he was born about
1752. George Stainback, Sr.'s last child was Francis Stainback who was born in 1757. He
married Nancy Bass and they had two children who were Elizabeth, born about 1796 and
Dorothy who was born about 1798. They had moved to Warren County, Georgia sometime
prior to beginning their family and this is where Francis died in 1818.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

two years until he passed away at the age of seventy-nine in 1796 and she died a few years
later, sometime after 1802 in Brunswick Co., Virginia.

1777

3rd generation

Politics still made for a difficult time in the colonies. I haven't gone into a lot of detail in this
chapter concerning the political and military events going on around the Stainback's, but
during this generation that George was busy making and raising a family, the colonies had
fought a war with the French and Indians, had broken the bonds with their mother country,
had become engaged in a war for independence and was soon to be in the midst of creating
a new nation. George Stainback's boys certainly answered the call to military service as two
were in the local militia and three of them served in the American Army. This speaks well of
their upbringing as a patriotic, freedom-loving family committed to risking their all like so
many others in the hope of self-determined liberty free from British monarchial rule. But ut
often was not easy being a patriot during this time. Today we wonder why everyone back
then wasn't supporting the cause for American freedom, but in 1776 people felt differently.
The colonists were Englishmen after all and had centuries of family history and love of their
country running deep within their veins. Many loyal Tories felt that they were the patriots and
not those wanting to break away from the mother country. They could not understand or
fathom the idea of rising up against the family and English background. Many still had families
in England. The revolutionaries on the other hand, our ancestors, were patriots in our
recognition of the word, but were also called rebels, and rightly so, because they were the
ones in revolt. It was a tough time when neighbors not only looked across the fence at each
other, but were politically "on the other side of the fence" from each other. The decision then
that each man had to make concerning his allegiance did not come easily, but came by moral
turpitude as it certainly would pit him at odds against many who previously he had known as
a friend, a fellow church member, a neighbor, a business associate, or even in some cases a
family member. Some of those relationships would be gone forever as each placed his economic
and personal well being in jeopardy by choosing sides. I am so pleased and proud however
of our ancestors, as with twenty-twenty vision gained by living 235 years later, I see that they
chose correctly as Americans.
As I just mentioned on a preceding page, George's sons John Stainback and James Stainback
were members of the Granville County, North Carolina militia. In colonial times, the American
colonies were organized into militia districts for defense, for no regular army existed to protect
the settlers from marauders along the frontier or from rebellion within. When they were
threatened, the colonists formed militia companies for temporary service. Each colony enacted
its own laws regulating militia, usually requiring military service for all free white males who
were physically fit and between the ages of sixteen and sixty. There were exemptions for
conscientious objectors and members of the government, and those who did not wish to
serve could hire a substitute. Usually one-third of the able-bodied men of the community
remained for its protection if the militia embarked on a mission. In some cases threatened
areas were evacuated until they were considered safe again.
232

The William Stainback Family

The French and Indian War broke out in 1755 and lasted until 1763 and many local militia
groups were called upon to assist in this endeavor. There is no record of the specific activities
of these Stainback brothers so we don't know to what extent they marched and fought in the
war effort, but it appears that they did participate at least in the local guard as privates because
they are listed on a pay voucher as members of Colonel Robert Harris' Regiment on March
24, 1769.23 As noted by this date, James was twenty-three years old and John was twentynine when they appeared on the pay list. They seem to have only been active in the military
during this period of hostilities and did not serve during the American Revolution.
George Stainback, Jr. however did fight in the war for our independence. He was living in
Mecklenburg County, Virginia when he enlisted for the war effort and served as a Sergeant in
the 6th Virginia Regiment Continental Line during the American Revolution. It appears that
he served for a period of time, but eventually paid to have a substitute fight in his place. There
also was a Robert Stainback from Mecklenburg County who served in the 6th Regiment,
Virginia Continental Line. We are not positive if there is any blood relationship or not between
23 Murtie June Clark, Colonial Soldiers of the South 1732-1774, Genealogical Publishing Company, Baltimore,

Maryland, 1999, page 862 and 863.

233

1777

3rd generation

The colonial governor was the
commander-in-chief of the militia. The
Governor appointed officers to provide
training for the militia. Training was held
periodically at local muster grounds
where the men were drilled in the use of
weapons and the elements of military
discipline. Local authorities had the
power to commandeer members of the
militia for military or police action if
needed for combat units. A portion of each trained band was required to march on short
notice when an emergency arose. In later years, this portion of the militia company came to
be known as Minutemen. The Tuscarora War of 1711-1712 made the colonists realize how
important an effective militia was to their security. The defense system was reorganized in
1715 and gave the governor authority to appoint officers for mustering and field action. Although
not a combat force in itself, the type of military organization which evolved possessed features
of both the militia and the regular army. These units were very important in protection for the
local populous during turbulent times in the absence of any military or police force. In later
years, these units developed into state regiments and became part of the military establishment.
As the Revolutionary War eventually broke out and an American Army was formed, some
men continued to serve as militia and also were periodically called upon to serve with the
regular 'professional' army.

WILLIAM STAINBACK III
JOHN STAINBACK
WILLIAM STAINBACK, JR.
UNK. WOODLIEF STAINBACK

GEORGE STAINBACK
UNK. STAINBACK
SUSANNAH STAINBACK

JOHN HAMLIN
ANN GOODRICK HAMLIN

THOMAS STAINBACK
THOMAS STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK

JOHN STAINBACK
UNK. HAMLIN STAINBACK

WILLIAM STAINBACK, SR.
UNK. BURGE STAINBACK
ONAH EPPES STAINBACK

EDWARD ROBINSON
ELIZABETH JACKSON ROBINSON

ISRAEL HARTWELL
HANNAH HARTWELL

JOHN STAINBACK, JR.
JANE STAINBACK
PETER STAINBACK
MARY LIGON STAINBACK
THOMAS STAINBACK
ELIZABETH OLIVER STAINBACK
CHARLES STAINBACK
LITTLEBURY STAINBACK
LUCY ROBINSON STAINBACK

SUSANNAH S. HARTWELL
RICHARD HARTWELL
MARY S. ABERNATHY
UNK. ABERNATHY

CLEMENT HANCOCK
ANTHENY HANCOCK

THOMAS WILSON
(from page 217)

MARY STAINBACK

FRANCIS STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK

JOHN HUNT
MARY TYUS HUNT

SARAH S. HANCOCK
BENJAMIN HANCOCK

REBECCA S. WILSON
THOMAS WILSON, JR.

ELIZABETH JANE S. MCINVALE
JAMES MCINVALE
ANNE STAINBACK HUNT
TURNER HUNT

WILLIAM STAINBACK
JOHN STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK MCINVALE
THOMAS STAINBACK
JAMES STAINBACK
GEORGE STAINBACK, JR.
ROBERT STAINBACK
FRANCIS STAINBACK
PETER STAINBACK, JR.
WILLIAM STAINBACK
JOHN STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK HAMLIN
NANCY STAINBACK THOMAS
DOLLY S. THOMAS
WILLIAM STAINBACK
SARAH STAINBACK
JOHN STAINBACK
ELIZABETH S. WILKERSON
ROBINSON STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK
REBECCA S. BRANTLEY
MARY POLLY HARTWELL
ANNE HARTWELL
ELIZABETH HARTWELL
JOHN HARTWELL
EMANUEL HARTWELL
PASCAL HARTWELL
EDMUND HARTWELL
LITTLEBURY S. HARTWELL
CLEMENT HANCOCK
ELIZABETH H. EDWARDS
MARTHA PATSEY HANDCOCK
FRANCIS HANDCOCK
MARY HANDCOCK MASON
ELIZABETH W. FREEMAN
HENRY WILSON
FRANCIS WILSON
THOMAS WILSON III
MARY WILSON SAXON
LITTLEBURY WILSON
WILLIAM WILSON
REBECCA WILSON GRIFFIN
JOHN HUNT
ELIZABETH HUNT TRIPPE
TURNER HUNT, JR.
NANCY HUNT CLEMENTS
LUCY HUNT RUSSELL
MARTHA HUNT MORELAND
MARY HUNT ABERNATHY
REBECCA HUNT WOMACK
SARAH HUNT JACKSON
THOMAS HUNT

FRANCIS STAINBACK, JR.
SARAH H. STAINBACK

REBECCA S. HANCOCK
HARDAWAY STAINBACK
LITTLEBURY STAINBACK

THOMAS EPPES

FRANCIS STAINBACK
UNKNOWN STAINBACK
PAMELA EPPES STAINBACK

EDMUND STAINBACK
LITTLEBURY EPPES STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK ANDREWS

LITTLEBURY STAINBACK
ELIZABETH STAINBACK

WILLIAM STAINBACK
ANN LAMBOTH STAINBACK

ELIZABETH STAINABCK
REBECCA STAINBACK
ANNE STAINBACK HART

JOHN HARDAWAY
REBECCA PEPPER HARDWAY

LITTLEBURY STAINBACK, JR.
AMELIA STAINBACK
1st generation

WILLIAM STAINBACK IV
GEORGE STAINBACK

2nd generation

3rd generation

WILKINS STAINBACK
PETER W. STAINBACK
SUSANNAH S. TUDOR
4th generation

Ancestors are in bold print and their spouses are indented on the next line. Maiden names are mentioned where space permits. Parents of the spouses are listed if known.

234

(to page 242)

A History of Selected North Carolina Families
The William Stainback, Sr. Family

The William Stainback Family

these two men, but as they were from the same county and since family members often served
together, and even though this assumption may be somewhat of a stretch with no positive
proof, it does seem likely that this Robert Stainback could have been George's brother and
they served together during the war.
George Stainback's youngest son Francis, also was a Revolutionary War veteran. As a
young man he obviously moved to North Carolina like two of his older brothers because he
enlisted in 1778 as a private in Captain Searsey's Company, 6th Battalion, North Carolina
Continental Line of the American Army.24 He is described as being twenty-one years old,
having light hair, light complexion and light eyes. I don't know what a "card maker" was in the
18th century, but this trade is what he listed as his vocation. He returned to Virginia for a
short while after his military service, but then moved back to Richmond County, North Carolina
near his brother Thomas Stainback, as he is listed there in the 1790 federal Census. He then
later moves to Warren County, Georgia where he lived until he died shortly before 1818
when his will was probated.

24 Clark, Roster of North Carolina Soldiers in the American Revolution, State Records of North Carolina

Army Accounts-Halifax and Warrenton, Vol. XVII, 1781-1788, page 556 and 600.

235

3rd generation

This family really began to move around at this point. The independence expressed by the
thirteen young colonies wanting to grow up separate from their mother country was the same
sentiment expressed by George Stainback's children wanting to move elsewhere to be on
their own. You will notice that when William Stainback immigrated to this land in 1690, it had
taken four generations and almost one hundred years before the family had left this corner of
Virginia and began to spread around the country. They had all stayed in the tidewater Virginia
area all these years, but as shown above, two of George's children now had moved from
there to Granville County, N.C., one went to Mecklenburg Co., V.A., one to Richmond
County, N.C. and one to Warren Co., Georgia. This speaks much about life now in the
colonies. The threat of harm from the Indians had diminished somewhat as the white man had
moved farther westward. Travel was extremely difficult still, but obviously manageable. Young
families were wanting to venture out themselves now in search of their own property and
futures that were afforded them in this new country. It's been pretty obvious that most children
during the first century or two following the founding of the Jamestown colony were farmers
and also tended as adults to stay in close proximity to family and where they grew up as often
they worked the same land together. Eventually the Stainbacks migrated out to the neighboring
counties of Prince George, Brunswick, Amelia, Dinwiddie and Lunenburg. It's difficult to
trace them however because these counties were devastated by the Union Army toward the
close of the War Between The States. The first thing that these Yankee bastards did when
entering a county was to burn the Courthouse to demoralize the local folks. In doing this they
also destroyed a lot of valuable records and family information.

1777

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1777

These children however may have had another motive other than growing pains which urged
them to move away from home. It could have been due in a big part to the personality of their
Dad. George had a bit of a drinking habit, was somewhat of a scoundrel and therefore may
have made life rough on his children. He showed favoritism "in the heat of passion" and left
some property and slaves to his favorite children and left some others out of his will. This
created ill will as you can imagine between his children and after his death they sued each
other over this property and the execution of Dad's will and his estate. There is on file a case
in Brunswick County, Virginia (case number 1802-003), which involved the estate of George
Stainback, Sr. who died in 1796. George's son Francis was suing his brother William Stainback,
over several slaves that were given by George to Francis, but were in William's possession.
Here is an excerpt of Susannah Stainback's (George's wife) deposition in the case that was
made on November 24, 1798:

3rd generation

Sometime in '83 my husband being urged on in the heat of passion by his
daughter Mary Woodruff and others did turn me out of doors and in time
of desperation made a deed of gift to his son Francis Stainback and
daughter Mary Woodruff. About two years after our separation George
Stainback went to live with his son William Stainback where I also went.
We lived there one year and then moved back to his [George's] plantation
where we lived for 10 years. George left to son William four Negroes,
Old Juno, Bob, Judy, Juno along with some other property. During this
time, Francis Stainback took Lucy and four children, but does not know
on what terms. About three years ago, Francis came in from the Carolinas
to our house and after some conversation with George Stainback, Francis
stated he was about to sell his right to the land which George Stainback
forbid, but after some more conversation, Francis told George that if
George did not interfere with selling the land, then Francis would agree
that all possessions then in the possession of George would be at his
disposal and he [Francis] would never lay any claim to it.
And the reply deposition from William Stainback (paraphrased):
The deed of gift was from loud, extremely violent passion and insanity
produced by excessive intoxication . . . William Stainback also stated: James
Mclnvale married Mary, daughter of George Stainback. George Stainback
was much addicted to drunkenness. One complainant [Francis Stainback]
got as much of the property as he could remove to the State of GA and
left his father in a helpless state. Francis Stainback seduced the Negro
Bob to go to GA. Old Juno was very old and infirm; Judith was 16, and
Juno [girl] was 12. Francis Stainback sold the land to Gholson.25
25 Another Stainback researcher is Jim Hamlin of Virginia. He also has done extensive research on this family
and some of his material has been forwarded to me by Charlie Rathbun. The research on this court case
involving George Stainback's children was done by Jim. More case information is in the Stainback Appendix.

236

The William Stainback Family

237

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1777

Thomas Stainback
William Stainback, Jr.'s son Thomas sold his 300 acres in Brunswick County in 1743 and
moved to Dinwiddie County, Virginia where he is listed in the tax records up to the year
1750. Nothing else in the future identifies him except for the fact that he had moved again as
he passed away sometime around 1750 in Amelia County, Virginia.
Let me just note that as I began to collect the Stainback information, I have to admit that I
became really confused because there are so many relatives with the same names. You will
notice on the outline a few pages earlier that in just three generations from William Stainback
through his great-grandchildren, there are nine with the first name of William and eight were
Johns, six Thomases, six Francises, three Georges, seven Littleburys, seven Elizabeths, five
Rebeccas and ten Marys. And this pattern of family names continues for a few more generations
so you can see how easy it is to get them all mixed up. On the preceding page is an actual
copy of some notes that I took while trying to sort out all of these names and the various
generations. Our relatives certainly followed the English custom of naming their children after
their grandfather and they may have also just been such a close family that they wanted to
keep the family names in succeeding generations. Hopefully you will find the family diagrams
helpful as I have provided them to assist us both in keeping everyone straight.

4th generation

William Stainback III
William Stainback III was the oldest of William Stainback Jr.'s boys as he was born about
1713 in Prince George County, Virginia. He inherited most of his father's estate in that county,
farmed this land and as explained for most of our relatives in this book, he grew up typical of
the average farm folk in the early 1700's. In 1745 at the age of thirty-two William III married,
but I don't know his wife's name. They began a family immediately as their first born was a
son William Stainback IV who came to them about the same year they were married. Birth
control was just not a big issue in the early 1700's, but pregnancy sometimes didn't come
easily either as it was another twelve years before their second child was born. And lucky for
some of us that he was, as their second son George Stainback, who was born about 1757
was my direct ancestor.
The children of William Stainback III
One thing that has not changed in all these years is that time passes quickly for a busy, growing
family and before William even realized it his boys were grown. They married and eventually
left his home to begin their own lives. William III died sometime before 1782.
William Stainback IV
When William Stainback IV was twenty-four years old he married a woman named Martha
(last name unknown), who was two years his junior and they had four sons born to them while
living in Prince George County. They were Nicholas H. Stainback who was born about
1767, William H. Stainback born about 1769, George H. Stainback born about 1771 and
lastly Robert Stainback who was born in 1776. William IV and Martha remained in Prince
238

The William Stainback Family

George County all of their married life. William IV died however about 1782 while in his
prime at the age of approximately thirty-seven years old and Martha Stainback was suddenly
left with their boys at the ages of fifteen, thirteen, eleven and six. She raised them and lived
until about 1802 when she died at the approximate age of fifty-five.
William's son Nicholas married Elizabeth Eppes about 1795 in Prince George County, Virginia.
He passed away in 1826 in Prince George County so that was obviously where they had their
home and raised their family. She however moved from there sometime as she died between
1860 and 1870 in Chesterfield County, Virginia. Their children were William Stainback (17961822 and died in Lauderdale County, Alabama), Hamilton Stainback (1799-1880 and died
in Sumner County, Tennessee), Edmund Stainback (1800-1839, Prince George County),
Ann Stainback (1805-), Mary Stainback Emory (1811-), John C. Stainback (1815-), Martha
Stainback (1817-), Elizabeth Stainback (1821-) and Rebecca Stainback (1825-).

1777

William Stainback IV's son William H. Stainback married Ann (last name unknown) and he
lived until 1826 in Prince George County. Their children were Rebecca Stainback Sadler
(born in 1805 and died in1844 in Nashville, Tennessee) and Peyton Stainback (1803-).

His last child, Robert Stainback (1776-1858), married Drucilla Parron (1794- before 1860)
in 1808 in Williamson County, Tennessee. They lived in Tennessee and both of them died in
Nashville. Their children were George Edwain Stainback (1812-1881) and Martha A. H.
Stainback Gullett (1815-1882).
George Stainback
The second son of William Stainback III was George Stainback who was born about 1757 in
Prince George County, Virginia. Like most of the colonists during this time, George was a
farmer and he therefore undoubtedly worked his chores around the farm along with his siblings
and parents. From the time these children were beginning to mature, they were educated as
best the parents could afford, participated in church and community functions, helped the
family unit to provide and keep the house and farm in order, feed and care for the livestock
and basically become a much needed and contributing member of the household. I imagine
that George was a typical boy in a typical family. When he was born the British and their
colonies were engaged in the French and Indian War. Hostilities were mainly confined to the
areas of settlement along the western frontier where naturally there was a considerable
concentration of Indians and also toward Canada where the French influence was strongest.
The Stainback family was certainly fine at their home in eastern Virginia, but this war was the
talk in the taverns and gathering places. I'm sure along with the war talk, there was considerable
239

4th generation

William's next child was George H. Stainback. He married Nancy Hubbard, they made their
home in Henrico County, Virginia and their children were Edward Stainback (born in 1815)
and a daughter (unknown, who was born about 1817).

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1783

discussion and angry profanity directed not just at the French, but also toward the Crown as
the Sugar Act, the Currency Act, the Stamp Act, the Quartering Act and the Declaratory Act
were all passed between 1764 and 1766. From the moment that George could walk and
talk, most of what he overheard from his father and neighbors was about the bickering between
the colonies and the mother country. This situation worsened until eventually an American
Army was formed with George Washington commissioned as the commanding General.
Hostilities had reached the level whereby fighting against the British had begun now on a
professional level in America. Then in 1776 when George was seventeen years old, the
colonies declared their independence as a free nation and his older cousins had enlisted to
fight to make this country free. I don't mean to be redundant with repeating the history of the
time, but I am trying to place each of these ancestors in the proper setting historically, politically
and chronologically.
We do know that our George Stainback grew up in Prince George County and later met a
young woman named Elizabeth Jane Harrison. Elizabeth Harrison was born on July 12, 1759
in Albemarle, Surry County, Virginia. She comes from a long line of Harrisons, going all of the
way back toWilliam Harrison, who came to this land sometime between 1638 and 1650.

4th generation

A Virginia researcher thinks that George was an overseer on the Harrison Plantation and that
is how he and Elizabeth met. Nevertheless, they became attracted to each other and a courtship
began. They were married on January 4, 1783 in Prince George County, Virginia. They did
not waste any time in starting a family as exactly nine months after their wedding their first son
was born. William Henry Stainback came to them on October 2, 1783 and then his brother
James Harrison Stainback came exactly two years later on October 25, 1785.26 There are
no records of George and Elizabeth ever leaving Prince George County.
George and Elizabeth's time together was short lived. After being married for only five years,
George died sometime before June 10, 1788 in Prince George County. It was on this date
that his wife Elizabeth was appointed Administrix of his estate, which indicates that he did not
have a will. George was only twenty-nine years old, Elizabeth was twenty-five and their two
sons were three and five years old when he died. Elizabeth Stainback lived by herself for two
more years and tried to provide for her family as best she could because now she had two
young boys to raise by herself. It certainly was a difficult task for a single, young mother in
1790 as she was adjusting to having the sole responsibilities of a family and also the loneliness
of her husband being gone. Thankfully she had family nearby and surely the Harrisons assisted
her.
However, in 1789 the will of one Benjamin Harrison stipulates that if his niece, Elizabeth
26 As you will learn in more detail in the Fawn Chapter, Elizabeth Stainback's second husband was a veteran
in the Revolutionary War. Elizabeth supplied her family Bible as part of a veteran's widow pension application which is the source that I use here for her children's birthdates.

240

The William Stainback Family

Harrison Stainback, married his nephew, who was William Fawn (also spelled Fann), of
Warren County, North Carolina, then she would receive two slaves.27 William Fawn had
been an officer in the American Army during the War for Independence and with the defeat of
the British, he returned from the war as a Captain having served part of his six year career
directly under the command of George Washington and the Marquee de Lafayette. He was
quite a catch for Elizabeth, as she was able to gain property from her uncle, as well as also
marry a local war hero. They did marry on January 19, 1790 and she moved with her two
sons and new husband to Franklin County, North Carolina near the present day New Bethel
Baptist Church in Epson. They managed their farm and business interests and enjoyed some
peaceful time together there is Franklin County as they raised their family. Not only did
William raise Elizabeth's two sons as if they were his own, but together they also had five
children; Jacky Fawn, Nancy Epps Fawn who later would marry Kinchen Bledsoe, Wilmouth
fawn who later married Samuel Devaney, Suzanna fawn and finally William Henry Fawn.
William Fawn died in 1809 and Elizabeth lived quite a bit longer as it was about 1850 when
she passed away. It is assumed that they were most likely buried together near their farm in
Franklin County but I have not been able to locate their graves.

1783

WILLIAM STAINBACK IV
MARTHA STAINBACK

GEORGE STAINBACK
ELIZABETH H. STAINBACK
WILLIAM FAWN

WILLIAM H. STAINBACK
ANN STAINBACK
GEORGE H. STAINBACK
NANCY H. STAINBACK
ROBERT STAINBACK
DRUCILLA P. STAINBACK
WILLIAM HENRY STAINBACK
JAMES HARRISON STAINBACK
JACKY FAWN
NANCY EPPS FAWN
KINCHEN BLEDSOE
WILMOUTH FAWN DEVANEY
SAMUEL AARON DEVANEY
SUSANNA FAWN
WILLIAM HENRY FAWN

WILLIAM STAINBACK
HAMILTON STAINBACK
EDMUND STAINBACK
ANN STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK
JOHN C. STAINBACK
MARTHA STAINBACK
ELIZABETH STAINBACK
REBECCA STAINBACK
REBECCA S. SADLER
PEYTON STAINBACK
EDWARD STAINBACK
GEORGE EDWAIN STAINBACK
MARTHASTAINBACK GULLETT
GEORGE W. STAINBACK
JAMES H. STAINBACK
ANN S. OVERTON
JONATHAN F. STAINBACK
WILLIAM H. STAINBACK, JR.
MARY STAINBACK OVERTON
BENJAMIN F. STAINBACK
NICHOLAS H. STAINBACK
RICHARD STAINBACK
LITTLEBURY B. STAINBACK
ELIZABETH C. STAINBACK
MARTHA STAINBACK

27 Abstracted and compiled by Benjamin B. Weisiger III, Prince George County, Virginia Records 1733-1792, 1975.
241

(to page 248)

WILLIAM STAINBACK III

JAMES HARRISON

(from page 234)

NICHOLAS H. STAINBACK
ELIZABETH EPPS STAINBACK

4th generation

I'm going to spill the beans a little here as I hinted in the opening paragraph of this chapter that
the connection between the Stainback and the Jackson families began very early. Actually it

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

was with this marriage. Keep this in mind while continuing on as the family connection will not
be complete until the end of the Fawn Chapter. Since we are direct kin to a Harrison line
through Elizabeth and also through her husband William Fawn, then I've taken a moment to
describe our Harrison lineage through a brief chapter following this one.

1816

George and Elizabeth Stainback's youngest son, James Harrison Stainback, was born on
October 25, 1785 in Prince George County and grew up to marry Lucy Griffin on January
13, 1812 in Warren County, North Carolina. She was the daughter of Benjamin Griffin and
was born about 1795 in Warren County. Their children were Richard Stainback who was
born in 1832, Littleberry B. Stainback born in 1842 and died on September 17, 1862 in
Petersburg, Virginia, Elizabeth C. Stainback born 1843 and lastly Manerva Stainback who
was born 1851. I don't know what happened to Lucy, but she must have died prior to 1850
because sometime after this date James Stainback was married to Martha Patsey Dickerson
in Franklin County.28 She was born in 1850. They lived at least another ten years together as
James died sometime between 1860 and 1870. Patsy lived until 1881 when she passed
away in Franklin County.

5th generation

Before we continue on with the Stainbacks and their involvement in "the period of late
unpleasantness" that our country experienced in the mid 1800's, I need to mention that our
ancestors were again involved in a little disagreement with the British in 1812. I have reference
material that lists Hardiway Stainback (son of Francis Stainback, Jr.), and also George
Stainback ( maybe either the son of William Stainback III or George Stainback), serving as
privates for a period of three months and five days in the Virginia Militia during the War of
1812.29 Even though I don't cover all of our kin folk who have served in our country's
military, I don't want to not mentioned all of the wars and conflicts that our ancestors fought in
as they tell the struggles of this country. They also show the patriotism of our family brethern
as these wars probably bring out both the best and in some case the worst of our history.
William and Sarah Stainback
The other son of George and Elizabeth Stainback, William H. Stainback, was born on October
2, 1783 in Lunenburg County, Virginia. William and his brother James spent their youngest
years in Virginia and with their mother remarrying in 1790 to William Fawn, then at the ages of
seven and five, respectively, they moved to their new farm/home in Franklin County, North
Carolina. They then probably had a normal life growing up on the farm there in this sparsely
populated community. Up early in the day, they would get dressed and help with the morning
chores that were assigned these two young men. Then breakfast and either some period of
schooling, or if it was harvest time then their first priority was with the family and others
helping with the crops. There was always some time for play and mischief as these boys
28 The 1860 Federal Census for Franklin County, N.C. shows James Stainback and his wife Patsy.
29 Pay Rolls of Militia Entitled to Land Bounty Under the Act of Congress of September 28, 1850, Richmond, 1851.

242

The William Stainback Family

developed, but life was pretty regimented and hard by our standards during these times. It
had to be, because their livelihood depended on cultivating the land and livestock so as to
bring the fruits of their labor to market in order to provide for the family. Their stepfather,
William Fawn, most likely shared his war time and practical experiences with these boys, as
well as with their younger half-brothers and sister who came later in this marriage, which gave
them a perspective to learn about this country that others did not experience. William grew in
statue and maturity and eventually at the age of thirty-two he was married to Sarah Coghill on
December 16, 1815 in Warren County. She had been born on May 6, 1794, also in Warren
County. William and Sarah lived near his mother and stepfather's home in the New Bethel
Church area. With plenty of family around for support they probably were very happy there
in Franklin County and began a family a year after their marriage.

The next child born to William and Sarah Stainback was William H. Stainback. He was born
in 1817 in Warren Co. and died sometime before 1880 in Franklin County.
William and Sarah obviously moved sometime during the next three years to Franklin County
as their next child, Mary A. Stainback, was born in 1820 in Franklin County and died about
1881, still in Franklin County. She married Joseph Overton on February 26, 1851 in Franklin
County. He was born in 1799 in Franklin County and died in 1867 in Hayesville, Franklin
County. I state here that they moved from Warren to Franklin County. Actually, as I mentioned
much earlier, I felt that William had probably moved from Warren County to Franklin prior to
getting married and had brought his new wife there to set up their home. Their farm is very
close to the present day county line between Vance County and Franklin Counties so where
the children were officially born actually depends upon the courthouse in which the birth was
recorded. Vance County was not formed until 1881, so their home at one time was Franklin,
but later would most likely be on the Vance County side of the county line. Vance was
created from parts of Warren, Granville and Franklin counties. As of 1881 then they were
situated equally between Henderson (Vance County) and Louisburg (Franklin County) and
the children's births could easily have been recorded in either county.
243

5th generation

Not only am I going to mention William and Sarah's children here, but before we go on with
the family's story, I am going to take a moment now to document their children's spouses and
children. Their first child was George Washington Stainback who was born in 1816 in Franklin
County. He married Sarah Willis Pendergrass, who was born in 1816 in Warren County, on
April 12, 1836 in Warren County. She was the daughter of Isaac Pendergrass and Elizabeth
Coghill Pendergrass. Their children were Elizabeth A. Stainback, born on February 21,
1837 in Warren County and died on July 31, 1917 in Vance County; James H. Stainback,
born in 1846 in Warren County and died sometime between 1860 and 1870 in Franklin
County, and George Madison Stainback, born on July 14, 1849 in Warren County and died
on April 11, 1935 in Vance County. George died on October 12, 1874 and was buried in
Franklin County. Sarah (George's wife), died on October 14, 1895 in Warren County.

1825

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1831

Their next child was James Henry Stainback, born in 1823 in Franklin Co. and died in 1887
in Vance Co. James met Mary Abigale Overton, who was born in 1831 in Franklin County,
and they were married on February 26, 1852 in Franklin County. She was the daughter of
Joseph Overton and Hannah Hunt Overton. They began a family the next year as Sarah
Joseph Stainback was born to them in September 1853. She died in 1906 in Vance County.
Then their next child was James H. Stainback, Jr. who was born in 1854 and died sometime
between 1870 and 1880 in Franklin County. Charles Earl Stainback was born next on October
7, 1856 and died on May 6, 1934 in Henderson. Simon Green Stainback was their next child
and he was born on July 16, 1888 and died on January 15, 1942 in Halifax County, N.C.
John W. Stainback then came to this family with his birth in 1861 and died about 1890 in
vance County. Patrick Henry Stainback was born on January 7, 1862 and died on July 8,
1949 in Vance County. Hannah F. Stainback was the next child of James and Mary Stainback
and she was born in September 1866, living until sometime between 1900 and 1910. Their
last child was Geralous D. Stainback who was born on march 7, 1869 and died on January
12, 1950 in Henderson. James' wife Mary passes away in 1873 and sometime between
1873 and 1887 James married a second time and this was to Mary Frances Hunt in Franklin
County. She was the daughter of Joseph Hunt and Elizabeth Merritt Hunt and was born on
July 4, 1849 in Franklin County and died on May 18, 1921 in Kittrell, Vance County, N.C.

5th generation

Jonathan Faughn Stainback then came to William and Sarah. He was born on February 1,
1825 and died February 9, 1897 in Franklin County. He married Louisianna A. Overton on
March 10, 1870 in Franklin County and they had eight children. She was the illegitimate
daughter of Thomas Bobbitt and Mary Overton and was born on July 17, 1845 in Franklin
County. She died on December 28, 1913 in Franklin County and was buried at the New
Bethel Church in Epson, Franklin County, N.C. Their first child was Ambrozene Stainback,
born on May 14,1871 in Franklin Co. and died on April 3, 1949 in Vance Co. She married
Ira Jerome Jackson on December 21, 1898 and they had eight children. Then came Eugene
Tucker Stainback, born on October 1, 1872 and died on March 21, 1939, all in Franklin Co.
He married Pattie Poythress on December 17, 1901 in Franklin Co. and they had four children.
He and Pattie both are buried at the New Bethel Church graveyard. Next was Leola Lee
Stainback, born on April 11, 1874 and died on January 3, 1957, all in Franklin Co. She
married Lutie Louise Ayscue and they had four children. Ralph Judd Stainback was born next
and he came on August 30, 1876 in Franklin Co. and died on June 8, 1946 in Vance Co. He
married Mary Jan Vaughn on December 25, 1907 and they had five children. He and Mary
are also buried at New Bethel Baptist Church. Araminton Minnie L. Stainback was born on
July 27, 1878 in Franklin Co. and died on March 12, 1953 in Vance Co. She married
George Carroll on November 16, 1898 and then later on January 12, 1908 she married
Charles Dorsey. Their next child was Cecil Fawn Stainback, born on February 8, 1880 in
Franklin Co. and died on October 24, 1944 in Vance Co. He married Martha Priscilla
Edwards on December 28, 1904 and they had seven children. Henry John Stainback came a
couple of years later on March 4, 1882 in Franklin Co. and died on May 27, 1926. He
244

The William Stainback Family

married Edna Kearney on December 16, 1905 and they had three children. Their last child
was Nora F. Stainback who was born on February 25, 1884 and died in two months on April
15, 1884, in Vance County.

Then came Ann Elizabeth Stainback who was born in 1833 in Franklin County and died
sometime after 1880 in Vance Co. She married Joseph R. Overton on November 3, 1849 in
Franklin County. He was the son of Joseph Overton and Hannah Hunt Overton and was
born in 1825 Hayesville, Franklin County. They had one child who was Laura Ann Overton.
They had moved to Vance County as he died before 1880, she died sometime after that, both
in Vance County.
And now, the last child born to William and Sarah Stainback was Nicholas H. Stainback. He
was born on October 13, 1847 and died on July 16, 1907, in Franklin County. He married
Mary A. Bragg about 1869. She was the daughter of William and Drucilla Harton Bragg of
Warrenton and was born on April 16, 1847. They had eight children and Anne Stainback
was the first when she came in December 1869. Walter L. Stainback was born next on
February 18, 1872 and died on January 7, 1914 in Henderson. Hester O. Stainback was the
next born on October 2, 1876 and died on February 24, 1958 in Vance County. Their next
child was Loren Otis Stainback who was born on March 8, 1879 and died in Henderson on
245

1848

5th generation

On January 18, 1831 the next child of William and Sarah Stainback, Benjamin Franklin
Stainback, was born. He married Virginia Edwards on January 11, 1855 in Franklin County.
She was the daughter of William Edwards and Margaret Allgood and was born on November
4, 1832 in Franklin County. Their first child was William Thomas Stainback who was born
in January 1856 and died on May 20, 1945 in Wake County. The came Mary Mollie Van
Stainback on November 16, 1859. She died on August 22, 1945 in Henderson, N.C. Josiah
N. Stainback was then born to Benjamin and Virginia on April 11, 1861 and died on February
4, 1926 in Franklin County. Benjamin left for war shortly after he was born so they didn't get
back to the business of making a family until 1861 when the war had ended. Augustus
Richard Stainback then came to them on January 13, 1866 and died on March 25, 1947 in
Franklin County. Junius O'Brient Stainback was then born in October 1867 and died on June
18, 1944 in Statesboro, Georgia. Peter Joyner Stainback was the next child of Benjamin
Stainback when he was born on November 15, 1869. He passed away on April 24, 1927 in
Franklin County. Edwin Earnest Stainback was born on November 15, 1871 and died on
June 5, 1956 in Henderson. Their last child was James Paul Stainback who was born on
January 7, 1875 and died on June 23, 1951 in Henderson. Virginia was forty-three and
Benjamin was forty-four when their last child was born which gave them a full household of
eight children. They raised their children, farmed and ran a general store there on County
Line Road. Virginia died first on February 19, 1908 and then Benjamin followed her a few
years later when he passed away on February 15, 1917. They both were buried at the New
Bethel Church cemetery.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

May 10, 1944. Mary Augustus Stainback was the next addition to the family on July 27,
1881 and she died on September 17, 1968. Lucy H. Stainback was the next child when she
was born on June 9, 1884 and died on January 6, 1959 in Vance County. Their next child
was Claudia E. Stainback who was born on May 8, 1887 and died on June 18, 1957 in
vance County. The last child born to Nicholas and Mary Stainback was Jan M. Stainback
who was born on June 13, 1893 and died at the age of fifteen on March 14, 1908 in Vance
County. Nicholas Stainback died on March 17, 1902 and Mary just lived two more years
after that as she passed away on July 16, 1907 in Vance County.
1861

6th generation

Now back to the family's story. William passed away on November 29, 1848 in Franklin
County at the age of sixty-five. So now at fifty-four years old his wife Sarah, eleven years his
junior, had the responsibility of the home and farm, and also the care of their children. With
William passing away, it sure helped to have plenty of family around to assist Sarah and also
for most of the children to be old enough to care for themselves. His death came after his
youngest child Nicholas had just turned one year old so Sarah had an infant to look after.
Nicholas had to be a late surprise to them as the next oldest sibling was Ann at the age of
fifteen and then Benjamin, who was seventeen now. I don't know at this point if the older
children were still at home or had moved to their own places by this time. Jonathan was
twenty-three and single, James was twenty-five and single, Mary was twenty-eight and still
single and William was thirty-one, but we don't know anything about his status. Her oldest
child George was thirty-two and was married and had two children by this time.
The next dozen years or so passed by and Sarah was able to continue to raise her young ones
there in Franklin County. As each year passed however, the problems in this country began
to get closer to her doorstep as we moved closer to a divided nation. William and Sarah
Stainback certainly had raised their family to be strong and patriotic. It could be said that
Sarah was unfortunate because her age had put her perfectly in the child bearing years whereby
when the children were grown they would be old enough to enlist in the army when this
terrible war came along. On the other hand, she may not have viewed this as being unfortunate,
but instead maybe was proud that she could contribute so much to their beloved South. Be
that as it may, her contribution was that four of her six sons served in the Confederate Army.
I personally cannot imagine the daily stress that this single mother was under as each morning
she surely wondered if one of her sons was in Harm's Way. A deep faith and lots of prayer
had to be her comfort.
Sarah Stainback followed with great concern the politics and sectionalism in this country
because it seemed to grow more intense as her sons grew in age and statue. Everyone knew
this war was inevitable and she was afraid that some of their sons were going to want to go
fight. There was a lot of difference in their ages as all of the boys were old enough to marry
and some had their own homes. They had to maintain their farms, look after their families and
provide for themselves. As 1861 rolled around Sarah's family was certainly grown by now.
246

ISAAC PENDERGRASS
ELIZ. C. PENDERGRASS

JOSEPH OVERTON
HANNA HUNT OVERTON

GEORGE W. STAINBACK
SARAH W. PENDERGRASS
RICHARD DUKE
JULIA HIGHT DUKE
JAMES H. STAINBACK
MARY A. OVERTON STAINBACK
MARY F. HUNT STAINBACK
JAMES BURT
FANNIE YATES BURT

JOSEPH S. HUNT
ELIZABETH M. HUNT

W. EDWARDS
QUEEN WATKINS EDWARDS
ANN S. OVERTON
JOSEPH R. OVERTON
WILLIAM DUKE
JOANN BLACKWELL DUKE
MARION J. JACKSON
ELLEN FELTS JACKSON
JAMES A. BLEDSOE
SUSAN MAY BLEDSOE

JEROME LOTAN JACKSON
EMMA BLEDSOE JACKSON
JOHN POYTHRESS
ANN NUNN POYTHRESS

ROBERT VAUGHN
BETTIE MANGUM VAUGHN
GEORGE STAINBACK
ELIZABETH HARRISON STAINBACK

(from page 242)

WILLIS JACKSON
PATTY F. JACKSON

WILLIAM H. STAINBACK
SARAH C. STAINBACK

THOMAS V. BOBBIT

JONATHAN F. STAINBACK
LOUISIANNA O. STAINBACK
WILLIAM H. STAINBACK, JR.
JAMES KEARNEY
MARY KEARNEY
MARY STAINBACK OVERTON
JOSEPH OVERTON??????

WILLIAM EDWARDS
MARGARET A. EDWARDS

BENJAMIN F. STAINBACK
VIRGINIA EDWARDS STAINBACK

BENJAMIN GRIFFIN

ADKIN TIMBERLAKE
HARRIET W. TIMBERLAKE
MADISON EDWARDS
ARIBELLE SMITH EDWARDS
G. AYSCUE
LUCY CONN AYSCUE
JOSEPH CARROLL
HARRIETT CARROLL

4th generation

WILLIAM BRAGG
DRUCILLA HARTON BRAGG

NICHOLAS H. STAINBACK
MARY BRAGG STAINBACK
WILLIAM AYSCUE
MARTHA MERRITT AYSCUE

JAMES H. STAINBACK
LUCY GRIFFIN STAINBACK
MARTHA PATSEY DICKERSON
5th generation

RICHARD STAINBACK
LITTLEBERRY B. STAINBACK
ELIZABETH C. STAINBACK
MARTHA STAINBACK
6th generation

247

ELIZABETH A. STAINBACK
JAMES H. STAINBACK
GEORGE M. STAINBACK
LUCY DUKE STAINBACK
SARAH S. STONE
CHARLES G. STONE
JAMES H. STAINBACK
CHARLES E. STAINBACK
ADA BURT STAINBACK
SIMON G. STAINBACK
NANCY HUNT STAINBACK
VIRGINIA HUNT STAINBACK
JOHN W. STAINBACK
VIRGINIA HUNT STAINBACK
PATRICK H. STAINBACK
MOLLIE DUKE STAINBACK
HANNAH F. STAINBACK
GERALOUS D. STAINBACK
MARY EDWARDS STAINBACK
LAURA OVERTON DUKE
WILLIAM K. DUKE
AMBROZENE S. JACKSON
IRA JEROME JACKSON
EUGENE T. STAINBACK
PATTIE P. STAINBACK
LEOLA L. STAINBACK
LUTIE AYSCUE STAINBACK
RALPH J. STAINBACK
MARY VAUGHN STAINBACK
ARAMINTON S. CARROLL
GEORGE CARROLL
CHARLES DORSEY
CECIL F. STAINBACK
MARTHA EDWARDS STAINBACK
HENRY J. STAINBACK
EDNA KEARNEY STAINBACK
NORA F. STAINBACK
WILLIAM T. STAINBACK
ANNIE BURT STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK DUKE
SIMON W. DUKE
JOSIAH N. STAINBACK
DORA CLAYTON STAINBACK
AUGUSTUS R. STAINBACK
ROBERTA T. STAINBACK
JUNIUS O. STAINBACK
NAN EDWARDS STAINBACK
PETER J. STAINBACK
MARY AYSCUE STAINBACK
EDWIN E. STAINBACK
MAMIE CARROLL STAINBACK
JAMES P. STAINBACK
LUCY VAUGHN STAINBACK
ANNE STAINBACK
WALTER L. STAINBACK
LOREN O. STAINBACK
FLORENCE AYSCUE STAINBACK
HESTER O. STAINBACK
MARY A. STAINBACK
LUCY H. STAINBACK
CLAUDIA E. STAINBACK
JANE M. STAINBACK

7th generation

(to page 268)

The William Stainback Family

The George Stainback Family

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1861

Her eldest child George was forty-five and he and Elizabeth, also forty-five, already had
three children, who were Elizabeth, age twenty-four, James, age fifteen and George, age
twelve. Sarah's other son William, was forty-four years old. Her daughter Mary Stainback
was forty-one and had married Joseph Overton ten years earlier. James Stainback was
thirty-eight and had married Mary Abigale Overton on February 26, 1852. They had eight
children, but as we are now looking at the family in the year 1861, their children at this time
were Sarah, age eight, James, age seven, Charles, age five, Simon, age three and John was
the new born. Patrick, was born the next year, with Hannah and Geralous coming after the
war. Jonathan was thirty-six years old and was not married at this time. Sarah Stainback's
son Benjamin was thirty years old, had married Virginia Edwards on January 11, 1855. They
had three children at this time who were William, age five, Mary, age three, and new born
Josiah. Augustus, Junius, Peter, Edwin and James were born following the war. Ann was
twenty-eight years old and she married Joseph R. Overton on November 3, 1849. Their only
child was Ann, who was two years old at this time. And Sarah Stainback's youngest child and
son was Nicholas, who was only fourteen years old and naturally was unmarried and still
living at home. My how her family was growing up and fortunately with so many young
couples there were plenty of grandchildren close by for her to enjoy.

Recheck birthdates...Nicholas was 26 years old.
6th generation

1861 was the year that changed the lives of many American families. I would imagine that at
each of their son's homes they all seemed to discuss the same topic every night at dinner.
"What's the news today? Do you think that our state will vote to leave the Union?" "I'm going
to fight!" "I'm staying home!" "Why do we have to fight?" "Why can't they just leave us alone
down here and stay put up there where ever they are?" "I'm going to shoot me some Yankees."
"Do you think that it will hurt to die?" "How long will the war last?"
As the family matriarch, Sarah Stainback's
home naturally seemed to be the gathering
spot for the family and as they would talk
Sarah cringed with each statement and
question. She knew it would not do any
good to try and talk these men out of
enlisting. The younger ones were excited
by the adventure and the older ones
wanted to defend their home against these
invaders. That is as it should be and she
thought that she would just have to leave it in the Lord's hands because she couldn't do
anything about this war anyway. Some of the older boys talked so nasty about those damn
Yankees that you would have thought they were Jeff Davis himself! Her boys were grown
and she would just have to let them make their own decisions. They would sit around her
table at night and she would pray not just for the food that they had toiled over, but silently
also for their safety. They grabbed a piece of chicken and stuffed a biscuit in their mouths and
248

The William Stainback Family
30

30 I obtained the copies of these military records from The U.S. National Archives in March 2003.

249

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

just smiled when she looked at them. She didn't
notice their smile however as she was in
thoughtful prayer. One prayer at a time for each
of her six boys as she visually moved around
the table. God bless us all for what was about
to come. Unfortunately for Sarah though, it
wasn't long before the war came to the
Stainback family.
1861

6th generation

The first son to enlist for the Confederate Army
was Nicholas Stainback. He didn't waste any
time in volunteering as the war had just begun
when he joined. Is it any wonder that he was
the youngest of the Stainback sons and was the
first to enlist? Young folks are often caught up
in the excitement of the moment and going to
war was about as great an adventure as one
can imagine. It certainly sounded more exciting that plowing Franklin County clay from the
backside of a mule during the heat of the day. Nicholas left the farm to join the Confederate
Army and on July 21st he enlisted in Henderson, N.C. with Company D, 8th Regiment,
North Carolina State Troops. "Company D was from Granville County and was mustered in
at Camp Macon, near Warrenton, Warren County on September 14, 1861. Except for the
muster-in roll dated September 14, 1861, no muster rolls were found for periods prior to
February 28, 1862, for the period from May-June 1863 or for the period after October
1864."31 He was twenty-six years old and was of average statue, as he stood 5', 7 1/2" tall.
Joining the war at the very beginning he was able to serve in the Confederate service all four
years of the conflict, until the surrender in 1865.
“N. H. Stainback, Private: Born in Franklin County where he resided as a farmer
prior to enlisting in Granville County at age 26 on July 21, 1861, for the war. ”32
One week after his brother enlisted, then Benjamin Franklin Stainback decided that he had to
go also. Sarah Stainback had quickly lost two sons to this "holy cause" as they referred to the
reasons for defending their home. Her table was growing smaller now and she didn't care at
all about the causes, the politics, the sectionalism, the racial issues or any of the other reasons
that her boys said were the cause of their needing to go fight. She just cared for her family.
She knew down deep that she had to allow her boys to go, and it was a noble cause, but
please just don't take her young men. There was some comfort however, knowing that both
31 Weymouth T. Jordon, Jr., North Carolina Troops 1861-1865, A Roster, (Published in 1973 by the N.C.
Department of Art, Culture and History, Vol.IV, page 551.
32 Ibid., page 551and page 559.

250

The William Stainback Family

of her boys were in the same company then she knew that they would look after each other.
“B. F. Stainback, Private: Born in Franklin County and was by occupation a
farmer prior to enlisting in Granville County at age 30, July 28, 1861, for the war.33

The war raged on for another six months, with Nicholas fighting, Benjamin on furlough following
his capture, and siblings Jonathan, James, Mary and Ann still in Franklin County working their
farms and looking after each other's families. No doubt they also did what they could to look
after their brothers' property as it was left to the family to manage when they departed. It was
early in 1863 and the war was about one-half over at this time. Even though General Robert
E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia had won every major engagement in the eastern
theater of the war, the loss of manpower, the destruction that had been placed on Southern
soil and the effect on its economy was taking a tremendous toil on the Southern people.
There were riots in the North against the war and many there were urging the government to
just let the Confederacy go its own way. This was the main objective of the South anyway.
33 Weymouth T. Jordon, Jr., North Carolina Troops 1861-1865, A Roster, (Published in 1973 by the N.C.
Department of Art, Culture and History, Vol.IV, page 559.
34 Ibid.

251

1864

6th generation

Once the State Legislature announced its independence by voting for secession, Carolina
boys obviously were joining quickly as by September 30, 1861 the 8th Regiment had its full
complement of ten companies. Regiments usually were comprised of about ten companies of
100 men per company. They were larger at the beginning of the war and, as expected, much
smaller man-units as the war drew close to the end. On September 18, 1861 the one thousand
plus men of the 8th Regiment left for Roanoke Island with Nicholas and Benjamin Stainback
among their group. The 8th Regiment was to establish camp and built fortifications on Roanoke
Island in order to defend the passage from the Pamlico Sound to the Albemarle Sound. They
challenged a Federal encampment on Hatteras and were moderately successful. Toward the
close of the year however, the Federals under the leadership of Gen. Burnside (who later
would distinguish himself as one of several commanders of the Army of the Potomac), attacked
the Confederate troops at Roanoke Island. While defending with only 1,434 men against an
Union force of 15,000 the Confederates were overrun and eventually surrendered. Nicholas
Stainback avoided capture, but his brother Benjamin Stainback was not as fortunate and
became a prisoner. "Captured at Roanoke Island on February 8, 1862 and paroled at Elizabeth
City, North Carolina on February 21, 1862. Exchanged in August 1862."34 Fortunately he
was eventually released and sent home. Under the parole agreement the men could not return
to active duty until exchanged man for man. This exchange finally came about and the company
was reorganized at Camp Mangum near Raleigh. Benjamin got to spend some time at home
following his capture and this certainly came as a much needed break for him. His own bed
and home cooking was sure hard to beat after bedding down in a Federal prison camp for
several months.

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

They knew they could not defeat the North; they just wanted a stalemate and eventual peace
through an independent government for the Southern states. However, even thought the
South was winning for the most part, the effects of it all was gradually wearing the Southern
people down. The immense resources of men and materiel up north would eventually be too
much for our ancestors and their countrymen.

1863

It was about this time that Jonathan Stainback joined the company, alongside of his two
brothers. Jonathan joined Company D, 8th Regiment where his brothers had been soldering
for a couple of years. The army obviously had no problem with him and his brothers being in
the same regiment. During this war, the recruiting was done in a particular area or community
and those joining stayed together for the duration of the war. A couple of records for Jonathan
"John" Faughn Stainback show him enlisting in July 1861, but in all probably the other records
which note his enlistment in March 1863 are correct.
“J. F. Stainback, Private: Resided in Franklin County and enlisted in Granville
County at age 30 on March 4, 1863, for the war. Present or accounted for
through October 1864."

6th generation

"The Adjutant General’s Roll of Honor” also lists his career as: Private volunteered
on July 28, 1861 at age 30, Franklin County 8th Regiment, Company D.”35
From this time on, the Stainbacks were engaged with their company in skirmishes in Goldsboro,
Wilmington and New Bern. Benjamin spent some time in the hospital in Goldsboro in October
1863, but apparently didn't stay there for very long. Then in January 1863 they were sent to
help defend Charleston and the lower part of South Carolina from attack. Jonathan Stainback
was then admitted to the hospital for an extended period of time due to illness. He obviously
became sick almost immediately upon entering the Confederate military service, as he reported
sick for a large period of his time in military service, as he was on medical furlough from
March 1863 through August 1864. This record also shows him being absent without leave,
but this most likely was because he still was on medical leave. He was present again for the
October 1864 company muster roll and probably stayed until the end of the war.
I don't know when or where James Stainback enlisted because his records are nominal. He
joined with the 8th Regiment NC State Troops and I assume that he would have also joined
Company D because that is where his brothers were enlisted.
"James Stainback, Private: Place and date of enlistment not reported. Missing
September 30, 1864. No further records."36
35 Weymouth T. Jordon, Jr., North Carolina Troops 1861-1865, A Roster, (Published in 1973 by the N.C.
Department of Art, Culture and History, Vol. IV), Page 559.
36 Ibid.

252

The William Stainback Family

James probably joined the army in 1862-1863 like his
brother Jonathan had done. Even though two brothers
had enlisted earlier, it seems like he and Jonathan, being
older, were later enlisting as maybe they felt the
responsibility of maintaining the farms and assisting with
the family. Now however, there were four Stainback
brothers in Company D, 8th regiment fighting against
the invading army. I'm sure that there was some comfort
as they watched out for each other's safety as well as
for their own. Sara Stainback now only had two boys
dropping by to eat biscuits at her table. Her prayers
had changed to one of protection for her four boys gone
defending their homeland.

1863

relationship???
Out of interest, you may note that other relatives of "our"

"During the great revival in the winter quarters of the Army of Virginia, '63'64, Captain Freeman was soundly converted and lived the life of a consistent
Christian. We mourned his loss! First Lieut. Wm. Liles was promoted captain.
George L. Stainback was another member of our company who failed to
answer roll call the night of the 30th. He was the son of Presly Nelme
Stainback and Elizabeth Little, his wife. Born and raised on the banks of the
great Pee Dee river, on the Richmond County side. His ardent spirit could
not brook delay - could not wait for the formation of a company from his
own county, but came and enlisted in the Anson Guards. He made a most
capital soldier, a good messmate, and all-around good fellow. Ever ready,
cheerfully willing for duty and was esteemed by his comrades. When he left
for the seat of war he left behind a dog, to which he was tenderly attached,
and the dog returned his love with compound interest. When killed his faithful
servant and valet, by some means (and it must have been with great difficulty),
procured a coffin and took his body home. The servants of our Southern
boys took great pride in providing for their masters, whom they served with
the devotion of foster brothers, and after a battle roamed the field over till
they were found and their wants attended. George's brother Frank relates
that on the day of the 30th the dog howled and continued to howl during the
night. Next day he was more quiet, but had a drooping manner and a sad
countenance; that four or five days afterward the dog accompanied me to
253

6th generation

George L. Stainback
Stainbacks also were fighting elsewhere in this war. It
may help to locate Presley Stainback and his wife Elizabeth Little Stainback on the family
diagram. They had a son George L. Stainback who had been fighting with the Anson Guards.
Here is his account:

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

the field where I went to superintend the workers. While sitting beneath the
shade of a tree near the roadside with the dog'd head lying in my lap I was
surprised at the approach of Jim, George's servant, whom I supposed was in
Virginia. Jim said, 'Marse Frank, Marse George is dead and I brung his body
home. It's out younder in the big road now.' Then it was I felt a quiver pass
through the body of the dog, and lo, he was dead! The realtor of this sad
incident still survives and he speaks the words of truth and soberness."37

1864

6th generation

Now, back to our boys. In November 1863, they were ordered to Petersburg where they
stayed for a couple of months. The regiment was then ordered to New Bern where they
assisted in Gen. George Pickett's attack on New Bern. Following this, in February they returned
to their old camp at Petersburg. They came back again to The Old North State that year and
took part in action around Plymouth and Washington. This regiment sure moved around a lot.
With a shortage of troops however, the Confederates had to shuffle between "hot" areas
within their defensive line when threatened and also when taking the offense in order to apply
the most troops as possible in a coordinated attack. The North did this quite often also, but
the South employed its troops more effectively as Lee was excellent at moving along his
interior lines to maximize his resources.
This wasn't done so much for strategy as
it was for necessity. It seemed as if they
spent much of their time in the state and
also traveling from here to eastern
Virginia. Hopefully, this provided them
an opportunity to take a short furlough
occasionally to Franklin County as they
were passing down the north-south
corridor. At least these brothers were
together most of the time.
The regiment marched to Kinston and then moved by rail to Weldon and then on May 9,
1864 they arrived at Petersburg, Virginia where they joined Clingman's brigade. This brigade
combined with Gen. Hoke at Drewry's Bluff where they moved to stop an advance by Union
General Benjamin Butler. If Butler could cut the Confederate line at this point, then
communication to Richmond would be cut and the city could be attacked from the south.
Clingman's men were called up in support and on May 20th they captured the forward Federal
line which sealed them in stopping the Federal attack. The regiment lost between eighty and
one hundred men killed and wounded.
Clingman's brigade then was assigned to Hoke's Division and on May 30th moved to Cold
36 FN

Charlie, Can you give me your source data for this story and picture so that I can
document it in this footnote?
254

The William Stainback Family

38

38 I obtained the copies of these military records from The U.S. National Archives in March 2003. Please
refer to the descriptions in the Jackson Chapter concerning the conditions of the Confederate soldier when
reading about our Stainback relatives. I won't go in to detail again, but they all faced similer emotions, fears,
hunger, cold, heat and harsh conditions that I have tried to describe in the earlier chapter.

255

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1864

Harbor as the Unionist were confronting Richmond from the northeast. The 8th regiment was
on the left flank of the brigade and were in place guarding the crossroads when they were
attacked and "heavily engaged" on the left flank and driven from the field. The brigade retired
to the main line and formed the left of Hoke's division, situated on the right of Lee's line.
Unfortunately, there was a gap between Clingman's brigade and the command on its left. This
regiment was again on the left of the brigade. On June 1st an enemy force slipped into the gap
and moved on the left flank of Clingman's brigade. When the enemy attacked, the regiment
found itself under assault from the front, left flank and rear. General Clingman faced his
brigade to receive the attack and a seesaw battle developed. Finally, with the arrival of
Confederate reinforcements, the Federals were forced to retire. On June 3rd the enemy
launched a general attack along the six-mile long line of troops. The attack was repulsed with
heavy loss to the attackers and the line settle down to observation.
Due to the dates on his records, it must have been the intense fighting at Cold Harbor where
Nicholas was wounded and subsequently admitted to the hospital.

6th generation

"Present or accounted for until admitted to hospital at Petersburg, Virginia on
May 20, 1864 with a gunshot wound of the right thigh; however, place and date
wounded not reported. Reported sick through October 1864."39
We certainly can't know where these brothers were during this battle or what they were
doing, but being in the same company we can suspect that they stayed together. They may
have been the first ones to come to Nicholas' aid when he was shot and immediately carried
him to the hospital, as other wounded had to lay unattended. No doubt they also wrote back
home with the news, or maybe not. Maybe if he wasn't hurt too bad, then it was better if
Mom didn't know that he had been wounded and the intensity of what these young men were
facing on the battlefield.
General Grant moved his army across the James, so Lee began to counter move in this giant
mortal chess match. By June the Stainback brothers were in the trenches at Petersburg.
Jonathan Stainback was finally released from the hospital after being on sick furlough for over
a year and it was at about this time that he rejoined his company. As you read in the Jackson
Chapter, the siege around Petersburg and its trenches were a tough, dirty, nasty new way of
fighting and these Stainback boys were certainly wearing thin, as was the rest of the Confederate
Army at this point in the war. It's interesting for me to note that like most of us from the
South, we had several relatives who fought for the Confederacy. Marion Jackson was my
great-grandfather as you noted earlier in the Jackson Chapter, and Jonathan Stainback was
also my great-grandfather (one's grandson married the other one's granddaughter). It just so
39 Weymouth T. Jordon, Jr., North Carolina Troops 1861-1865, A Roster, (Published in 1973 by the N.C.
Department of Art, Culture and History, Vol. IV), Page 559.

256

The William Stainback Family

happens that both of these men to whom I am a direct descendant were with the Army of
Northern Virginia and encamped around Petersburg at the same time. It might not have been
too much of a stretch for them to have known each other as they were both "from the same
neck of the woods."
The Union Army of the Potomac had captured Fort Harrison near Petersburg and the 8th
regiment was involved in the assaults to reclaim this fortress. The Confederates tried on three
separate assaults to recapture Fort Harrison but they failed. "The regiment was almost
annihilated. It went into the fight with 175 men. On the night of September 30th only 25 men
remained to answer the roll."40 As it shows on James Stainback's record, it was one of these
assaults on Fort Harrison that probably got to James. According to his military record he had
never been paid so he had probably not been in the regiment too long (but paydays were
coming few and far between in 1864). It also shows that a bounty was due for his return, so
that doesn't sound like good news for James since they were looking for him. It is never
justified for any soldier to leave the fight on his own initiative, but when only 25 out of 175
made it though the skirmish unscathed, many were bound to have had these thoughts on their
minds. With very few records for us to go on, it appears, at the worst, that he skipped out on
his service and at the best, he just had a very uneventful military career that was short lived.

How quickly lives change on a battlefield. Benjamin Stainback was captured a second time
during this battle. Some of Benjamin's military records show him absent but we know that he
was with his regiment during this time as is evident by his capture. He was confined at
Bermuda Hundred and then transferred to Point Lookout, Maryland where he was paroled.
He then was exchanged on March 17, 1865 at Aiken's Landing, Virginia.
"Captured twice, Benjamin saw a lot of action and spent about a year as a prisoner
of war. Present or accounted for until captured at Fort Harrison, Virginia on
September 30, 1864. Confined at Point Lookout, Maryland until paroled and
transferred to Boulware’s Wharf, James River, Virginia where he was received on
March 19, 1865 for exchange.”41
40 Weymouth T. Jordon, Jr., North Carolina Troops 1861-1865, A Roster, (Published in 1973 by the N.C.
Department of Art, Culture and History, Vol. IV), Page 559.
41 Ibid.

257

6th generation

As of October 27, 1864 during the siege of Petersburg, the Stainback brothers and the 8th
NC regiment were under the command of Col. H. McKethan of Clingman's Brigade. They
were a part of four regiments which comprised this brigade (the 8th NC, the 31st NC, the
51st NC and the 61st NC). Likewise, four brigades (Martin's North Carolinians, Clingman's
North Carolinians, Hagood's South Carolinians and Colquitt's Georgians) made up Hoke's
Division, under the command of Major General Robert F. Hoke.

1864

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1864

How lucky he was! I am serious when I say that he was lucky, as I am referring to the fact
that he survived the Federal prison at Point Lookout and was fortunate to be paroled. Point
Lookout was a horrible place. Much has been written about the Confederate Prisons but
they pale in comparison to this one. This prison was located on a thin finger of land protruding
down from Maryland into the Chesapeake Bay. The prisoners were exposed to wind and
cold. They were denied food and basic care and thousands died. The conditions were so
bad that today the Sons of Confederate Veterans have a special pin to recognize the descendents
of the former Confederate prisoners who were incarcerated there.42 After being released,
Benjamin Stainback could have returned to Company D, 8th Regiment, North Carolina State
troops, but I doubt that he did. Just twenty-one days after his release Lee surrendered his
army and then just a few weeks after that Gen. Joseph Johnson surrendered his troops in
North Carolina. The war in the east was over. I state that he was lucky because the war
ended shortly and he only had to spend a few months in prison.

6th generation

Even though the war was over for Benjamin when he was captured in 1864, there was still
plenty of war left for his brothers and their compatriots in the 8th North Carolina regiment.
James was no where to be found, but his brothers Nicholas and Jonathan stayed and remained
to answer the roll call. The regimental records are not available after October 1864, but as far
as we know from their individual confederate records, these Stainback brothers (except for
maybe James), stayed with their units until the end.43 Their service records are recorded as
honorable so we have to believe that they remained with their unit. Without any documentation
during these last few months, we just don't know exactly when they "finished" the war.
Following the unsuccessful assaults on Fort Harrison in October 1864, James, Nicholas and
the rest of Hoke's division were ordered to Wilmington. They entrained at Richmond in
December 1864 and were transported to Danville, Virginia. From there they marched to
Greensboro where they entrained for Wilmington. Shortly after they arrived, a large Federal
naval and infantry force had moved off of the coast of Wilmington and had laid siege to Fort
Fisher. They launched an attack to the fort on December 25th but were unsuccessful. Hoke's
division and these Stainback men were moved to Sugar Loaf, about four miles north of the
fort, where they waited while the Federals continued to bombard the fort by sea. On January
15, 1865 the Federals launched another assault and the fort fell, but Hoke's division remained
at Sugar Loaf and were not involved in the conflict.
42 The U.S. government will not allow a Confederate flag to be flown over this Confederate prison in order
to honor those that had been held captive there, so the Sons of Confederate Veterans bought adjoining
property and have established a memorial there. For more information on the prison at Point Lookout, or if
you as a descendant of an ancestor who was a prisoner there and are interested in joining the descendent
association, then contact them at http://plpow.tripod.com.
42 Weymouth T. Jordon, Jr., North Carolina Troops 1861-1865, A Roster, (Published in 1973 by the N.C. Department
of Art, Culture and History, Vol. IV), Page 551 states that "No company muster rolls were found for the period
prior to February 28, 1862; for May through June 29, 1863; or for the period after October, 1864."

258

The William Stainback Family

The division evacuated Wilmington on February 22 and took up a defensive position across
the Cape Fear river as the Federals entered the city. Hoke's division then moved to Wise's
Fork near Kinston where they were engaged with the enemy column approaching from New
Bern on March 8, 1965. They then retired to Goldsboro and on to Smithfield where on
March 19th they united with General Joseph Johnston's army near Bentonville. The largest
battle on North Carolina soil occurred there on March 19-21 as General Johnston's army met
General asshole Sherman who was driving north to join with Grant after burning and raping
everything from Atlanta northward. The 8th regiment seemed to be only lightly involved in this
battle and withdrew with the army to Smithfield where they served rear guard duty. After
three weeks they moved through Raleigh and Chapel Hill to Bush Hill in Randolph County.
While there, General Johnston surrendered the army on April 26, 1865. On May 2, 1965 the
regiment was comprised of only 150 men and they were paroled to go home.

Just as it has been described earlier for the Jackson veterans, after the war these young,
defeated, Stainback men returned to their loved ones and homesteads as best they could.
Their lives were changed forever. These men in their late twenties and early thirties had
become much older than their chronological age during the last four years. These brothers
had become severely sick, had been shot, had been hospitalized, had been taken prisoner
and one of them it appears had even been absent unlawfully. They came home with scares
and scars both internally as well as outside. And in 1865 there weren't any support groups,
psychological counselors, rehab therapists, medications and little government pensions or
assistance. They got along the best that they could. Probably the best psychological help that
anyone could get was just to come home and be comforted by family and a caring spouse.
Even though they didn't know about support groups, these veterans were bound to take
comfort when comparing experiences with each other. The Stainback boys were fortunate in
that as far as I am aware, they were able to return without extensive physical handicaps due
to the war.
Their country was defeated with its government, currency, mail system, economy, police, etc.
dissolved or certainly in a shambles. They had suffered an incredible loss as a generation had
been killed. Over 25% of the men in the South were killed in this war. The South's greatest
259

6th generation

The war was finally over and regrettably they lost. There was nothing left for them to do now,
so the Stainback boys went home to their families and farms. This defeated army had to
make the long walk home, but they still were a proud lot and placed each foot step down
knowing they had done their best, appreciative that they had survived unharmed, and looking
forward to a joyous reunion back home. I imagine just for safety reasons, as well as
companionship, that they grouped with folks from the same area and traveled home together
for they were without guns for protection or money for food and travel. Fortunately, they
didn't have far to walk as they only had to make it from Bush Hill to Franklin County and
could most likely do this in a couple of days.

1865

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

economic asset had been freed, many of its homes and fields were burned, cattle and farm
stock were taken and possessions plundered by the Northern invaders. A harsh period of
Reconstruction was imposed upon them by military law and "unqualified" Federal appointees
to judgeships, state legislatures and Congress. A vengeful Congress and its accommodating
President (a Southerner no less), punished the South for the next decade through military
occupation, harsh laws and abusive puppet governments placed in each state. But these men
presently were glad to be home to the comforts of family and would then began at to rebuild
and be a part of their "new country."
1865

6th generation

As stated previously, Benjamin probably came home when he was released from prison camp
in March 1865. What a surprise did the Stainback family of Franklin County receive when
they looked up and saw Benjamin coming toward them. They probably knew by this time
that the war was not going well, but it most likely had been quite some time since they had
received any news about these four brothers and their whereabouts. But maybe James had
been the first to return, since he had been absent since September 1864. He may have stayed
away from home since there was a bounty on him and didn't want to risk the chance that
someone might go to his home trying to find him. Now however, since there was no Confederate
Army or government anymore, he was free to venture out as he pleased. Even though
communications were relatively slow back then, you can bet that the news of the war's end
spread like wildfire! A short time thereafter, Nicholas and Jonathan would have arrived
following their journey from just a few counties to the west. I can't imagine the excitement in
this family as every single one of these four were safe at home after this terrible ordeal. This
scene had to be repeated in countless homes across our nation on both sides of the MasonDixon line. The Stainbacks were so fortunate, because for so many families there was no joy
as their loved ones were crippled, maimed or left on some battlefield far away never to be
reunited with their loved ones. Surely Sarah Stainback had the family over to her house again
and as the biscuit plate was being passed around their table, her eyes were once again filled.
This time though, it was to a merciful God who, for some reason had blessed her by returning
all of her boys intact.
The Stainbacks following the war
It was the summer of 1865 and Sarah Stainback had her family back together there in Franklin
County. I mentioned these children and their families quite a bit earlier, but now to continue
our story let's pick them up here after the war has just ended. Sarah's oldest child George
Washington Stainback, had not gone to fight. He was now forty-nine years old and he and
Sarah (his wife was named Sarah also and like him she was forty-nine), had three grown
children; Elizabeth age twenty-eight, James age nineteen and George age sixteen. George
and Sarah obviously lived in Warren County for some time as all three children were born
there. Hopefully he was able to look after his brother's farms and families while they were off
to war, but this is just an assumption. In their later years, George and Sarah moved to
Franklin County as he died there in 1874 at the age of fifty-eight. His wife Sarah lived for
260

The William Stainback Family

another twenty-one years as she was seventy-nine years old when she died and had earlier
moved to Vance County which is where she was living when she passed away.
I don't know if Sarah's son William was still around or not. He was forty-eight now, but I
have no record of him. Maybe he, like his brother George, being an older sibling, also felt the
responsibility of looking after everyone's affairs while they were gone. With Dad having been
gone for several years now George or William most likely assumed the role of head of the
family.
Sarah's next oldest child Mary A. Stainback married Joseph Overton on February 26, 1851
in Franklin County, just prior to the war. He was born in 1799 in Franklin County also and
died in 1867 in Hayesville, Franklin County. Mary lived until about 1881 when she died at
about sixty-one years old.

I have found an interesting tidbit concerning James Stainback, his brother, his sons and their
wives. You recall that James' first wife was Mary Abigale Overton. Prior to marrying James,
261

6th generation

You will recall that Sarah's next child was James Stainback, now at age forty-two, had thirteen
years ago married Mary Abigale Overton, now age thirty-four. She was the daughter of
Joseph Overton and Hanna Hunt Overton. They made their home in Franklin County also
where he was a farmer by trade and then they began a family in 1853. This was when their
first child Sarah was born to them. Then the next year came James, in 1856 came Charles, in
1858 came Simon and then in 1861 John was born. The war had broken out a year earlier
but James still was at home as this family kept on growing with Patrick coming in 1862. It
probably was about now that James left for the war, as you will recall we have limited information
concerning his date of enlistment. With the war now over, James came home and took back
up where he left off as the next year Hannah was born in 1866, with their last child Geralous
Stainback coming in 1869. Mary died in 1873 and was buried in Franklin County. This had
to be tough on James now that Mary was gone and his children at this time were ages twenty,
nineteen, seventeen, fifteen, twelve, eleven, seven and four years old, respectively. Certainly
the older children were able to help themselves and also assist with their younger brothers
and sisters, but that wasn't the same as having a woman in the house to manage and direct
things. So James married again. This time it was to Mary Frances Hunt, sometime between
1873 when his first wife died and 1887. His "second" Mary was born in Franklin County on
July 4, 1849, which made her twenty-six years his junior. It probably was a lucky trait that
she was much younger as she certainly had her hands full immediately by inheriting this adopted
family. I'm sure it brought her much joy also as she not only acquired a husband to care for
her, but also was able to feel so needed by this family. They moved to Vance County, but
James did not live very long after they were married as he died in 1887 at the age of sixtyfour. Mary lived for another thirty-four years until she passed away at the age of seventy-two
on May 18, 1921 in the community of Kittrell in Vance County.

1867

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1865

Mary had previously had an illegitimate daughter
by Thomas V. Bobbit and her name was
Louisianna Overton. It is a sad commentary in
our society today that so many children are born
out of wedlock, but in 1845 it was scandalous!
It was honorable however (and I think that it
might have been a legal requirement), that
Thomas Bobbit had provided for the well being
Virginia Florence of his illegitimate daughter through his will. It
Hunt Stainback provides for the upbringing of his daughter
Louisianna Overton by Mary Abigale Overton,
Simon Stainback
"who has since married Stainback." Also notable is the fact that despite
whatever public rumors or disgrace that Mary faced, seven years after having a child by
another man, then James Stainback married her. James also raised Mary's daughter Louisiana
as if she was his own. When the daughter Louisianna grew to adulthood, she married James'
brother Jonathan Faughn Stainback. As mother and daughter ended up marrying brothers,
then they also became sisters-in-law. Mary and her daughter
Louisianna, as well as James and Jonathan, had to be special people!

6th generation

Furthermore, you know that James later had several children himself
with Mary Overton after they were married. One of his sons, Simon
Stainback, married Nancy Hunt. Another son, John Stainback,
married his sister-in law's (Nancy) sister, Virginia Hunt. Thus, two
brothers married two sisters, which was probably not that uncommon,
Wayne Stainback
and made their children double first cousins. However, Nancy Hunt
Stainback died and left Simon Stainback a widower. Then John Stainback died, leaving
Virginia Hunt Stainback a widow. You guessed it! Simon then married his sister-in law Virginia.
It gets more interesting. As I referred to a couple of paragraphs
earlier, it was about this time that James Stainback's wife Mary
Overton Stainback died. As I mentioned, still having small
children at home who needed caring for, he remarried and this
time it was to Mary Francis Hunt. What makes this story
surprising is the fact that she (Mary Francis Hunt) was the spinster
unmarried sister of his sons wives, Nancy and Virginia Hunt, and
the oldest daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Hunt.44
Continuing with James Stainback's lineage for a moment, as I

Charles and Susie Rathbun
have mentioned earlier, Charlie Rathbun of Jasper, Georgia and
following their wedding
44 From Charlie Rathbun in a letter dated February 8, 2010. This family really did live close! I know it's
confusing, but follow it on the family diagram on an earlier page.

262

The William Stainback Family

Wayne Stainback of Henderson, N.C. have both been a big help to me and have contributed
much information for this chapter. Both of these "cousins" are connected to me from several
generations back through James. James Stainback and Mary (Overton) had eight children,
one of whom was a son, Patrick Henry Stainback. Patrick married Mollie Elizabeth Duke
and their child was Murtie Lee Stainback. Murtie Stainback married Nora Mae Ayscue and
their son Milton Edward Stainback married Nellie Farmer. Cousin Nelson Wayne Stainback
was one of their children.
James and Mary Overton Stainback had another son and his name was Simon Green
Stainback. He married Virginia Florence Hunt and they had a son named Lawrence Earl
Stainback. Lawrence later married Bradie Cleveland Heuay and their daughter was Lona
Faye Stainback. She married Charles Murray Rathbun and that marriage gave me another
cousin, Charlie Rathbun (which makes him my fourth cousin once removed, by my
calculations!). I have been corresponding with Charlie at his home in Georgia, only to find
out that his mother Lona Faye (my fourth cousin), is living just a few blocks away from me
here in Wilson, N.C. It really is a small world!

263

6th generation

Back now to William and Sara Stainback’s lineage. I have been mentioning them here in
order of their birth, which brings us to their next child who was Jonathan Faughn Stainback.
I'm going to skip him a moment however, as I am his direct descendant and I'll be following
his line in more detain in a moment. But for now, lets look at the next sibling who was
Benjamin Franklin Stainback. You recall that Benjamin had quite an experience in the war
with being wounded, captured twice and imprisoned. It had to be a tough decision for him to
leave his home and young family, but how wonderful to return unscathed and reunited with
everyone. Remember that he and Virginia had married ten years ago and children William,
Mollie and Josiah had been born before the war. Well, Josiah actually was born after the war
began, but it was before his dad left to fight. It was before he left but just barely. Josiah was
born on April 11, 1861 and his Dad Benjamin enlisted on July 28, 1861. I don't know how
he was able to get away because my wife surely would not let me leave her with two small
children and an infant only three months old to volunteer to go off to war! Anyway, it was
now the summer of 1865, the war was over and Benjamin was home again and farming the
fields of Franklin County. He and Virginia obviously had a great marriage as despite him
leaving so abruptly, they seemed to have picked right back up where they left off in the baby
department. Their next child Augustus came in January of the next year and then Junius came
a year and one-half later in October 1867. Then in 1869 Peter was born, in 1871 Edwin
came and finally in 1875 James was born. Virginia and Benjamin had a good life together as
they were married for fifty-three years before she died in 1908 at the age of seventy-six in
Vance County. Again, whether it was Vance County or Franklin County is dependant upon
which hospital she may have gone to or which courthouse registered her death, as they were
living on the county line near Epson. Ben ran a grocery store there which was located along
County Line Road, just to the right of the present day New Bethel Baptist Church is located

1880

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

(as you are looking at the church). Nine years later
Benjamin died in 1917 and is buried in the church cemetery.

photo

1890

Ann Elizabeth Stainback was the next child and you will
recall from earlier listings that she had married Joseph R.
Overton back in 1849. He was the son of Joseph
Overton and Hannah Hunt Overton and was born in 1825.
He also was the brother of Mary Overton who had
married Ann's brother James Stainback, so this is another
case in the Stainback family where a brother and sister
married a brother and sister. They had one daughter, Ann.
Joseph and Ann were living in Vance County when he
died sometime prior to 1880 and then Ann followed him
a few years thereafter.

6th generation

The youngest child born to William and Sarah Stainback
was Nicholas. You recall that he was not only the youngest,
Left to right, top row; Claudia,
Wa l t e r a n d L u c y St a i n b a c k . but also the first of the family to enlist in the war at the age
Bottom row; Mary Augusta (Gusy) of fourteen. He stayed for the duration of the whole
and Mary Bragg Stainback.
conflict, so now in 1865 he finally after four long years
was able to relax in front of his mom's fireplace there in
Franklin County. Nicholas was still single so probably had a big time playing with all of his
nieces and nephews. Actually, at eighteen years old he was younger than some of them. But
make no mistake about his age or his maturity. After seeing the horrors of war for four years,
fighting a determined and well provisioned enemy up close and personal, being exposed to
arduous living conditions in all kinds of weather, walking it seemed like to hell and back and
serving time in a Yankee prison, he was certainly no adolescent but every bit a young man
experienced in the ways of the world. After coming home, Nicholas stayed single for another
eight years or so until he married Mary A. Bragg in about 1869. She was the daughter of
William Bragg and Drucilla Hartan Bragg and was born in Franklin County.
Nicholas and Mary Bragg Stainback were married about a year and living in Franklin County
when their first child Anne was born. Walter came next in 1872, Hester in 1877 and Loren in
1879. It was 1881 and the portion of the county where they were living was reorganized into
Vance County so the rest of their children were hence born in Vance County. They were
Mary who was born in 1881, Lucy in 1884, Claudie in 1887 and finally Jan in 1893. Nicholas
passed away on March 17, 1905 and Mary likewise on July 16, 1907. They both were
buried at the New Bethel Church near Epsom in Franklin County.
My this was some family! When looking at just William and Sarah's children and grandchildren,
there were two sets of brothers and sisters who married brothers and sisters, another son
264

The William Stainback Family

whose wife was the mother of an illegitimate daughter
who married his brother, a father who married his
daughter-in-law's sister, cousins who were "really close"
to each other and just like every family this large, there
were preachers and swindlers, patriots and deserters,
rich and poor, attractive and ugly, drunkards and care
givers, saints and sinners.
1884

6th generation

Earlier we skipped past William and Sarah Stainback's
son Jonathan, so we'll continue with him at this point in
our lineage. Jonathan Faughn Stainback, you will recall,
was born on February 1,1825 in Franklin Co., N. C.
His middle name Faughn, is thought to be derived from
an early family name, Fawn. In all probability, he was
named after his grandmother’s second husband,
Captain William Fawn, and they just messed up the
Jonathan Faughn Stainback 46
spelling a bit.45 Like his brother Nicholas, Jonathan
was still a single man when the war ended. So now in 1865 at the age of thirty-six he was
returning from the war to the farm in Franklin County. You will recall that he was sick and in
the hospital for at least a year during his tenure in the Confederate Army. That was not
unusual as disease and illness killed more soldiers, on both sides of the line, than the enemy's
bullets did. Jonathan obviously recovered and overcame whatever illness had befallen him as
he was able to rejoin his company prior to the end of the war. I imagine though that for the
next six months until the war ended, he still was trying to gain his health back which was hard
to do on short rations and long marches. When he finally arrived home he most likely was
ready to rest and really recuperate. Sarah Stainback had her work cut out for her in the
kitchen as when Jonathan, or "John" or "Jack" as he was called, and his brothers returned she
began to butter more biscuits and tried to fatten her boys back up.
You will recall that Louisianna Overton was the daughter of Mary Abigale Overton and Thomas
Vines Bobbit, who I have mentioned earlier. Louisianna was born on March 4, 1845 in
Franklin County. Since her mother later married Jonathan's brother he obviously had seen
Louisianna around the family quite a lot and (as twenty years her senior), he had watched her
grow and mature to a nice young lady. This attraction grew and nine years after returning
from the war Jonathan and Louisianna were married on March 10, 1870 in Franklin County.
45 There has been some confusion as to how John F. Stainback spelled his middle name. I felt that Faughn
was correct because Theta Faughn Jackson told me that she was named after her grandfather. He in turn had
been given the name Faughn, which is thought to have been handed down from his step-grandfather, William
Fawn. I assume that through the years the name had been changed from Fawn to Faughn as in years past
many people just spelled a name like it sounded to them.
46 This picture is a scanned image that I took from a tintype of John Stainback. It is in excellent shape and
from his apparent age, it probably was taken sometime in the mid to late 1800's.

265

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

1884

7th generation

Jonathan was forty-five years old and they
immediately began a family as a year later on May
14, 1871 their first daughter, Ambrozene Stainback
was born in their home in Franklin County. In the fall
of the next year her brother, Eugene Tucker Stainback
came, in 1872 Leola Lee Stainback was born,
followed by Ralph Judd Stainback in 1876.
Araminton Minnie L. Stainback came in 1878,
followed in 1880 by Cecil Fawn Stainback, in 1882
by Henry John Stainback and finally their last child,
Nora F. Stainback was born in 1884. When she was
born her father Jonathan was fifty-nine years old. It
was good that Louisianna was younger, but even at
thirty-nine years old with eight children being born
over the last thirteen years she had to just be tuckered
out. And she was expected to clean and cook too. I
Louisianna Overton Stainback
don't make light of this because life for these farm
families was tough. Hopefully they had some help on
the farm as well as in the house. Louisianna had a lot of mouths to
feed and small children to care for, but her husband also had his
hands full. I'm sure he would try to help her when he could, but
spending a full day under the sun in the fields plowing behind a mule,
pulling suckers from tobacco, cutting firewood, dressing a hog, pulling
weeds, caring for the animals and hauling water just about took all of
his strength. Bed and rest came early for them each evening and
dawn broke too soon each morning.
They continued farming and raising their family there in Franklin
County and the years seemed to pass by quickly. Then on February
9, 1897 Jonathan died at the age of seventy-two years old. I am
discouraged to say that I don't know where Jonathan was buried.
For a while I had assumed that surely he was buried beside of his
wife, but I don't think that is the case.47

Louisiana Stainback's
grave at New Bethel
Baptist Church,
Epson, NC

Jonathan and Louisianna Stainback's oldest child Ambrozene was twenty-six at the time of
47 I would really like to find Jonathan Stainback's grave and identify it properly. Maybe we descendants could
also provide a Confederate veteran grave marker for him. His wife Louisiana had inherited some land from her
Overton side of the family near the community of Kitrell, North Carolina. There is some speculation that he may
have been buried either on this farm property (but the grave probably has been covered up over the years), or in one
of the cemeteries near the Plank Chapel Church there. Louisianna's grave in Epson, North Carolina has plenty of
space beside of her where he could have been laid, but there is no marker present. Since she has such a substantial
headstone I would have thought that if he was present, then his grave certainly would have been marked also.

266

THE JONATHAN STAINBACK FAMILY
The William Stainback Family

OLA ZENE JACKSON

EMMA LOU EDWARDS
CHARLIE R. EDWARDS

ROGER RAY JACKSON
KETHALEEN MURPHY JACKSON
AMBROZENE S. JACKSON
IRA JEROME JACKSON

CLYVE WINTON JACKSON
CLEO DEXTER JACKSON
THETA FAUGHAN JACKSON

JONATHAN FAUGHN STAINBACK
LOUISIANNA STAINBACK

NORA F. STAINBACK

IRBY BRUCE JACKSON
LENA ROWE JACKSON
ARAMINTON S. CARROLL
GEORGE CARROLL
CHARLES DORSEY

EUGENE T. STAINBACK
PATTIE P. STAINBACK

LEOLA L. STAINBACK
LUTIE AYSCUE STAINBACK
(from page 248)

IRA JEROME JACKSON, JR.
ROSE MABRY JACKSON

RALPH J. STAINBACK
MARY VAUGHN STAINBACK

CECIL F. STAINBACK
MARTHA EDWARDS STAINBACK

HENRY J. STAINBACK
EDNA KEARNEY STAINBACK

6th generation

7th generation

LUNA JACKSON FULTZ
JOHANN HAROLD FULTZ
JOHN MARVIN STAINBACK
DOLLY NEAL STAINBACK
FRANK WESTIN STAINBACK
HAZEL AYSCUE STAINBACK
GRACE ANN FARRIS
FRED B. FARRIS
EUGENE PAUL STAINBACK
LAURA HINTON STAINBACK
MARY STAINBACK
JACK FRANKLIN STAINBACK
MARY GOODSON STAINBACK
INFANT STAINBACK
CURTIS CLARK STAINBACK
STELLA EAVES STAINBACK
VIRGINIA MAE STAINBACK
WILLIAM GILL STAINBACK
VIRGINIA AYSCUE STAINBACK
MARGARET S. STAINBACK
WILLIAM FRANK STAINBACK
MAURICE LEE STAINBACK
RUBY HESTER STAINBACK
MACY VAUGHN STAINBACK
HELEN RAWLES STAINBACK
ARTHUR LONNIE STAINBACK
MARTHA STAINBACK COTTRELL
LEAVIE STAINBACK GILLIAM
JAMES THURSTON GILLIAM
RUTH STAINBACK SHERIN
TOM WILSON SHERIN
JOHN CECIL STAINBACK
MARY LAMBERT STAINBACK
RAYMOND NATHANIEL STAINBACK
RACHAEL BURNETTE STAINBACK
INFANT STAINBACK
EARNEST PERRY STAINBACK
WILLIAM FRANK STAINBACK
MARGARET THOMAS STAINBACK
MARY BELLE STAINBACK
267
8th generation

CHARLES J. EDWARDS
JANE M. EDWARDS
LOU ZENE E. AYCOCK
LEMUEL R.. AYCOCK
CHARLIE M. AYCOCK
FRANKLIN R. EDWARDS
ANN COBB EDWARDS
JEROME K. EDWARDS
YVONNE GLOVER EDWARDS
BRUCE W. EDWARDS
VERONICA BRAME EDWARDS
ROGER RAY JACKSON, JR.
ALMA BARBER JACKSON
LANORE JOYCE JACKSON LANE
CLARENCE LANE
FAYE TALMADGE JACKSON LYNAM
CHARLES ALLEN LYNAM
KATHRYN JACKSON TYLER
HERBERT MARION TYLER
RACHEL JACKSON BRANDON
HENRY ALLEN BRANDON, JR
JOANN R. JACKSON WARNER
CHARLES FLETCHER WARNER, JR.
IRA JEROME JACKSON III
NINA THIEM JACKSON
NANCY JEAN JACKSON
ROBERT CLYVE JACKSON
CATHERINE BROCK JACKSON
ROBERTA LERNER JACKSON
MOLLIE BROAD
IRBY BRUCE JACKSON,JR.
VALINDA ELLIOTT JACKSON
JANE JACKSON THOMAS
WILLIAM FRANCIS LEIGHTON
CLAUDE THOMAS
JOHN MARVIN STAINBACK
FRANK WESTIN STAINBACK
HELEN ANN STAINBACK
VIVIAN LANE STAINBACK
CONNIE STAINBACK HAWKS
HOWARD THORNE HAWKS
SANDRA EUGENIA STAINBACK
LOUISE STAINBACK FULLER
DAVE F. FULLER
HELEN STAINBACK THARRINGTON
LESLIE STUART THARRINGTON
ALTON OLIVER STAINBACK
LINWOOD RUSSELL STAINBACK
JULIUS WHEELER STAINBACK
VIRGINIA KEENE STAINBACK
JACK FRANKLIN STAINBACK
SHIRLEY STAINBACK PACE
REX A. PACE
BRENDA LOU STAINBACK
ROBERT GILL STAINBACK
MYRTLE MARIE STAINBACK
MAURICE DUKE STAINBACK
WILLIAM RALPH STAINBACK
RALPH EDWARD STAINBACK
AVA STAINBACK ANSTEAD
FLOYD ANSTEAD
KENNETH RAWLES STAINBACK
GWENDOLYN ANN STAINBACK
AGNES STAINBACK HICKS
-GODWIN
-HUMPHREY
-HICKS
CHARLES KENNETH STAINBACK
SHIRLEY STAINBACK PAUL
-PERRY
WILLIAM RUFUS PAUL
JAMES CECIL STAINBACK
RAYMOND DALE STAINBACK
SYLVIA WATKINS STAINBACK
MARGARET THOMAS STAINBACK
9th generation

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

Mattie, Minnie and
Ambrozene Stainback
Jonathan Faughn and
Leola Stainback

Araminton Minnie L. Stainback
Ralph Stainback

Cecil Stainback

268

The William Stainback Family

his death and was still single as she didn't marry until the next year. Her brother Eugene was
twenty-five, Leola was twenty-three, Ralph was twenty-one, Araminton was nineteen, Cecil
was seventeen and Henry was fifteen. Their youngest child was Nora, who was thirteen, so
Louisianna was probably able to manage the household after his death as the children were
basically grown and able to care for themselves and also help each other when needed. They
all now had to really pitch in however as Dad was gone and the farm still had to function in
order for them to survive. Louisianna lived for another sixteen years until she died at the age
of sixty-eight in Franklin County. She was buried at the New Bethel Church near Epsom in
Franklin County.

Their family was growing and aging and over the next few years they began to marry and
separate. Even so, they still remained close in this general area. Eugene Stainback stayed
single for quite a while but finally married Pattie Poythress on December 17, 1901 in Franklin
County. She was the daughter of John and Ann Numm Poythress. They had four children
who were John Marvin Stainback, born October 19, 1902, Frank Westin Stainback, born
May 19, 1907, Grace Ann Stainback, born May 20, 1911 and Eugene Paul Stainback, born
on November 25, 1914.
The next child was Leola Lee Stainback, born on April 11, 1874, who married Lutie Louise
Ayscue on February 24, 1897 in Franklin County. She was born on April 10, 1877 and they
had four children. They were Mary Stainback, Jack Franklin Stainback, born on January 8,
1899, Infant Stainback, born on December 26, 1907 and died the same day, and finally
Curtis Clark Stainback, born on March 3, 1913.

269

7th generation

You will recall that much earlier when I was referring to the William and Sarah Stainback's
children I mentioned how many were buried at the New Bethel Baptist Church (not to be
confused by a church of the same name in Henderson). From the records that I have been
able to review, it seems that many of these Stainbacks lived near the Flatcreek area. Because
so many of the Stainbacks are buried in this graveyard it is pretty obvious to me that they
lived close by and were probably very active in this church. They certainly could have been
buried on their farms like was the custom for many during this time, but they seemed to have
a connection to this church. I don't know the church's history, but they possibly could have
been instrumental in its creation. They lived close by, they are buried at the front of the
cemetery in the oldest section nearest to the church itself where the cemetery obviously began.
Think about it now. The war was over in 1865 and the Stainback boys returned to their
families and became involved in the community, which at that time meant that a lot of their
social activities centered around family, neighbors and the church. The church began in 1873,
just eight years after they returned. With so many of them buried there it seems natural that if
there was a new church started that the Stainbacks would have been active in its early years.
They certainly had the numbers to fill up a few rows on any given Sunday.

1897

A History of Selected North Carolina Families

Continuing with the rest of Jonathan and Louisianna's children, Ralph Judd Stainback was
next and he came on August 30, 1876 in Franklin County. He married Mary Jane Vaughn on
December 25, 1907. She was the daughter of Robert and Bettie Mangum Vaughn and was
born on July 20, 1974 in Vance County. Their children were Virginia Mae Stainback, born
on November 25, 1908, William Gill Stainback, born on December 1, 1911, Margaret Thomas
Stainback, born on November 14, 1916, Maurice Lee Stainback, born on September 15,
1918 and lastly Macy Vaughn Stainback who was born on August 13, 1025.
1950

Their next child was Araminton Minnie L. Stainback who was born on July 27, 1878. She
married George Carroll on November 16, 1898. Her second marriage was to Charles W.
Dorsey on January 12, 1908 in Franklin County.

8th generation

Cecil Fawn Stainback came next to Jonathan and Louisianna on February 8, 1880. He
married Martha Priscilla Edwards on December 28, 1904. She was born in 1887. They had
seven children, with the first being Arthur Lonnie
Stainback on May 21, 1926. Then came Martha
Lee Stainback on February 16, 1908 in Franklin
County. Their next child was Leavie Louise
Stainback, born on September 6, 1908, who
married James Thurston Gilliam. Ruth Ellen
Stainback was born next on October 9, 1912 in
Franklin County. She married Tom Wilson Sherin
on May 6, 1946. John Cecil Stainback was next
born on April 19, 1914. Then came Raymond
Nathaniel Stainback on June 5, 1916. Their last
child was born on May 20, 1926, was unnamed
and died the same day he was born.

Ira Jerome Jackson and
Ambrozene Stainback Jackson

The next member of this family was Henry John
Stainback who was born on March 4, 1882, He
married Edna Kearney on December 16, 1905.
She was the daughter of James and Mary Kearney
and was born in 1876.

The last child was Nora F. Stainback, who was born on February 25, 1884, but only lived
two months as she died on April 15th.
I waited until the end of this list of Jonathan and Louisianna's children to mention their oldest
child who was Ambrozene Stainback, in order to continue my family line of descent. Ambrozene
was born on May 14, 1871 and on December 21, 1898 married Ira Jerome Jackson, born
November 11, 1879 in Wake County. They made their home in Middleburg, N.C. in Vance
270

The William Stainback Family

County where he farmed with his father and brothers. They had eight children born to them.
Their first child was Ola Zene Jackson who lived only a few months and was buried in the
New Bethel Baptist Church cemetery. Then came Emma Lou Jackson Edwards, Roger Ray
Jackson, Clyve Winton Jackson, Theta Faughn Jackson, Ira Jerome Jackson, Jr., Irby Bruce
Jackson and Luna Pearl Jackson Fultz.
Ira and Ambrozene's son Irby Bruce Jackson, married Lena Tarkington Rowe Jackson of
Harrisville, N.C. Their adopted their first child who was Robert Clyve Jackson, born on
October 11, 1948. Then Irby Bruce Jackson, Jr. was born to them on January 18, 1950,
followed by Jane Rowe Jackson Thomas on April 17, 1952. More detail on the lives of these
children and their families was presented earlier in the Jackson Book.

Considering that our ancestor William Stainback, Sr. who born in 1660, immigrated to this
land in the later part of the 17th century, then this Stainback family (from William down to my
grandchildren), has at present been represented in this land for eleven generations and 351
years!

48 This mention of the Stainback's musical talents was relayed to me in a letter from Luna Fultz, April 2000.

271

9th generation

My Aunt Luna Fultz remembers fondly her Stainback relatives when she was growing up in
Middleburg. She related to me that her mother's family, the Stainbacks, "had musical talents
and they had their own country music band. I don't know if they played for any one other
than their own kin. I remember that they visited often and always brought their instruments.
Uncle Gene (Eugene) lived with us several years and he took great interest in my piano
progress. Through the years after he moved, every time he visited I had to play for him. I
presume that what talent I had came from the Stainbacks. They had fiddles, banjos, a
mandolin, guitar, harmonica and drums. Uncle Cecil's wife played the piano."48

2011

